And I was also in close touch with the HR, the CTO and the CEO. So after I was accepted, I received an email from each department. So yeah, I would say the HR department and the CTO and CEO.
They were quite responsive, really fast, I would say. And there were instructions, obviously. I was sent a contract, an agreement, everything was signed.
So in this instance, I would say that it was really organized. So it was a positive experience to me. I also didn't have to wait for a long time for each email.
, the previous company that I was working for, and they weren't really so responsive. And to me, that means that they either weren't so interested in me, or maybe they were waiting for another candidate, even though they accepted me, or they weren't as professional as I thought them to be.
in the beginning, I wasn't really clear, but I didn't want to ask any questions to them regarding this, because I think that getting things done in the technical aspect is more important.
when I told the current company that I also had received an offer from another company, they really seemed to be pushing more. So I also had an in-person interview where I saw that, okay, the CEO was really trying to convince me and join the company.
I was also told that the company has a lot of benefits and then I was listed all of them.
they contacted me directly with my offer. They sent me the contract. I had to sign it and send it back. No need for hard copies or things like that, just by email or scanning, things like that. They had a list of documents I had to provide and that took a couple of weeks to take care because depending on the laws and how the documentation can be provided by school or by the national institutions and things like that.
then they sent me some more information regarding housing because we also have a relocation package that helps a lot money-wise 
information about E-card and I think for metal centre as well
it was some kind of good information and a guide of what is expected of you when you come here.
was very responsive and with whatever questions that I had, she was very quick to respond.
I felt like secure in a way. So, I was safe to have like to be more, how can I say it, not safe, but just like secure and that I'll find everything and I'll like have everything in place in a way.
I would have liked to be a little bit earlier because it was like, where do I go, what do I do, who I contact and things like that.
the communication I had with HR and later then with my manager was making me feel easier.
there's also more careful communication with each other.
So, it's not like being diplomatic, but it's in the way that we don't hurt each other's feelings when we have something to criticize or we have something that is going wrong.
In the HR, it was like a normal HR interviews. I mostly did the interviews with the managers. HR was very little involvement from HR, like very few questions from them.
during the questions and the interview part, they were laughing or having some reaction to what I was saying. So, that's a good feeling and you can read it on their faces sometimes when it's good.
They were very transparent with me 
So, they had clear information, they had clear procedures, they had people to take care of you, so it was what you would expect from an international company. Nothing out of the ordinary, but also not bad.
Well, the only information that I had from the pre-boarding was that I would have a buddy, like a person that would take care of my onboarding. So I didn't know what to expect in a way.
, in the meantime, I was, I would say, daily in contact with my current director in this case
And I always was getting updates regarding my status in this case for the visa, for the onboarding in this case, which is like creating the needed accounts and if I needed some support. 
What I didn't get that others, as I heard, are getting is the relocation package,
they were very professional, but in the meantime, very friendly, because everything was, like I didn't have to do any bureaucracy or anything like that. 
But mainly emails and also phone calls. We were doing a lot of phone calls, directly cell phone calls.
Just getting in constant touch, constantly in communicating with me, caring about the needs in this case, and if I have any further requirements
, just the relocation thing, if it's included, would be really good. 
getting you into the office before onboarding.
I would say it was increasing trust based on their alertness and professionalism. So I would say it was increasing.
getting to know the team before joining in, maybe through some calls, video calls, and also why not this training of the products 
Definitely open approach, open communication between both sides in this case, keeping it professional, however, in the meantime, like being friendly and open because a lot of emotions are mixed in this process for both sides
I didn't face any problems in terms of submitting all the necessary documents that was requested. But also, it was a lot of guidance at the beginning.
, I was contacted from my team leader regarding the last details. So, there was a lot of information on that point.
I received an email with all the information after I got the offer.
. I liked the fact that everything was written on a written form. So, everything was official and there were no mistakes and no misunderstanding from any side.
Well, actually, it gave me the feeling that it was a stable company. It was well organized. So, the HR department felt that they were doing the job quite well.
I felt quite good. It was a really friendly approach from the HR. And yeah, so far my experience was really good.
from other sides that were trying to clarify this and just say, okay, yeah, we need this and this. Are you okay? Have you completely understood what is your role?
"it was the feeling that the company was really international. Also, the people that were interviewing me were from different cultural backgrounds. But also, I could see also that the company and the other employees are not from Austria, so there's a lot of intercultural environment.

Something that was really, really good to see and that was making me feel easier to the whole process and more comfortable."
"each person that communicated with me actually was there for a particular reason and he was there to communicate his or her point of view. So, what was necessary for him to get as information.
So, I believe that actually helped me to understand that they know for what they are employing"
Everything was a good communication. Everything was in a friendly environment. 
First of all, to be clear with them, what is expected from them, why it is expected from them. So when this is good communicating and clear communicated to get the feedback in terms of are you okay with this, are you happy with this.
they have called me, they emailed me and everything was also in verbal and also in writing. So, they were very effective from this part.
And I really felt like it was a very serious company. And for me, I felt good and very, let's say, I felt like I could trust the people and the people that were talking to me and calling me. In this case, it was HR department, different colleagues now.
And they were very helpful. In the pre-onboarding, they would call me because I had a need to apply for a new red-white-red card, a new visa. And so, they were very willing to help me with that.
it was very helpful and always being there if I had any questions or anything. Also, of course, they helped me with some presentations and they sent me some more materials and information regarding the company
"There were some related to the company from the way that how they do business. And of course, also the ecological part that they are very complying with the environmental needs and everything.

So, that part sparked my attention. And it was something that I really appreciated the companies. And I look at when they care about the environment."
And always, if you need anything, just call us. And we will help you with any document that you need. So, that really was like, let's say, a good start for me.
They showed me several materials that I would need for my job. And how the culture was in the environment, the culture in the team was.
Well, the other company was not so, I would say, not so precise. And they were not very organized. That made me feel a little bit like stressed and not showing trust to the company.
"And not being organized, being late with the replies, with the phone calls. That made me feel a little bit like I was very, let's say, not so.

I have my doubts for the company, for the previous one. Which I didn't have for the company I'm currently working. Because, as I said, they did every step right."
I'm thinking now that in my previous job, usually some people did not care how I felt.
I came to the office pretty much to meet my new team leader. 
he only showed me around, like where is what and what is what.
If I have like the access for anything or everything that I need for the work, like all the softwares or programs that I need for the work.
it wasn't that much, but it was quite clear. I mean, it was only through email.
basically during this one week gap, like time gap, basically we didn't do much. I only got like two emails, no phone calls, only emails. Okay.
there's like my first impression when they were like invited me directly to the company, like in person to meet my team leader. So my first impression was like, yeah, OK, then they really want me
. So I got this impression that they appreciate me and they want me to be there, to be part of their team. That's actually my impression.
. I was in communication with the company and people from human resources all the time. They would explain to me how things were and give me the necessary information of my position and also about the company.
before actually starting the on-boarding phase, they had set up an on-boarding buddy for me and he sent me an email with all the explanations about the job, about the project, about what I needed to enhance the skills before actually joining this project 
"I think it was very professional. We generally were in contact with emails during this stage, nothing else.

No teams or any other communication tool, but I think it's very professional and everything is documented, so they would just communicate with my personal email until I would get the email from the company."
Comparing to previous experiences, it was a higher frequency of communication
I had to wait for a while, so that made me a bit anxious, but when I received the email from my onboarding buddy and I started being in contact with him, the communication was, let's say, at least once per week and that was a pretty good experience comparing to experiences and frequency of communication with the company that I worked before.
I think at that time I did not have much any idea how things worked and I was a bit anxious how things worked there and what is expected of me
I would say they were pretty supportive for me and they would always respond any questions that I have and since I was also non-EU national
, I was in frequent communication via email with the HR person, with the person that actually did the interviews with me and followed up on everything
he invited me to go to the office, to the premises and I could actually see and touch a little bit where the place was and what it looked like, to meet some people there and let them know that I would be the new employee
just communicate a bit more 
it's important that in the end they would just reply to my emails to make me feel sure that things are going okay and we're going on the right direction together 