TargetText
I would say that I was very confident since the first day I wasn't anxious, unlike my first, uh, experiences with other companies.
I was able to be in touch with the team, most specifically with the CEO and the CTO. 
I was introduced to the team, even though the company is a little bit small, the office and most of the employees are remote.
setting everything up in terms of hardware, software, uh, my work environment and everything. 
 the first experience was really good and positive, I would say, and quite professional. 
when I was introduced with all of this new stuff, I was overwhelmed and I felt a bit anxious and stressed, but then I was thinking, okay, this is what happens in every company and every onboarding. So everything requires some time.
I felt a lot of stress. Uh, not because of, in terms of expertise, but as I said, it's because it was something new and your company and your environment. So that plays a role.
Of course, I was scared. I was like, how is my colleague going to look like, going to feel like? How are they going to like receive me?
. Initially, I anticipated a bit colder culture here from the other colleagues and the teams. 
, I was surprisingly, in a positive manner, surprised actually because they really welcomed me in a good way in this case.
everything from the equipment requirements that I have stated during my pre-boarding phase was waiting for me at the table 
. Just an ease onboarding started with some onboarding trainings.
There were quite a lot of people, a lot of trainees that were at the same moment when I joined. So, it was a strange environment, a strange feeling at the beginning because everyone was new and no one knew what and where he or she should go.
I was collected from two colleagues of mine from my department. So, they took me there to get my new ID and also to just start to show me the things around the building and where I should go, what should I do.
I would say it was a bit more difficult because when you are on the first day, you are learning, you are starting from scratch. 
Of course, when you start a new job, of course, you're feeling a little bit anxious
I was feeling anxious
But then when I saw the environment and the team and everything, I don't know, but my stress level decreased. I was more relaxed.
But before, I was very stressed, to be honest.
They had organized everything. They put the things that I needed, like my laptop, the other parts, the screens and everything, the keyboard. They had prepared everything, my table.
They would give me a short introduction, again, about the company and hierarchy, organigram and stuff like that, more detailed. And then I would meet with IT. They would give me all my passwords, everything that I needed for my work.
Meeting the team was really nice because, as I said, I was introduced in my interviews, but I did not know them personally, so I was kind of networking between the departments a little bit. And that day, it went like that. Half of the day was trying to get to know everyone and trying to network with the colleagues.
And after that, I was in a very short introduction of my tasks and how everything was structured in the department I'm currently working in. And so, this is how the first day went by.
when I came there for the first time on my first day, you can say so, I didn't have any impression, to be honest. 
, it was a bit annoying, frankly speaking, because then I had to start over again, I had to learn new things from the beginning again and stuff, so my impression, it wasn't that good, but it wasn't that bad either, so it was quite middle, I'd say.
I remember it being very awkward because I'm also working in a industry that there are many men
We had some technicalities with the tools that I needed to use 
in itself the first day I remember it was a bit strange to me and I felt like what am I doing here? Do I really belong here?
they just called my name to introduce themselves that was a bit unprepared and a bit scared like I was not prepared of that 
thinking that yeah maybe also during onboarding there will happen something and I will not be supported enough but then it was much easier having an onboarding buddy 
I was super excited, to be honest, but thrilled and happy. But in the same time, I was super scared,
I was pretty nervous right before I came to the company
The day before the first day at work was a bit stressful for me. I had a mix of feelings such as enthusiasm, fear, insecurity and tiredness due to the moving from Vienna to Tyrol. 
I was a bit scared because this new career was totally new for me and I didn't know how the work in a real company is and how would I manage to succeed.
Before the first day I felt insecure but happy to start and the beginning of the first day I felt welcomed and respected. This made the feeling of insecurity to fade a bit.
During the day I felt overwhelmed with all the information I received. I expected a more easy-paced environment the first day. This took me by surprise.