Interview 1 

[Speaker 2] (0:01 - 0:52)
Okay, so, hello, and thank you for agreeing to participate in this interview for this student project. The study aims to reveal new employees underlying feelings, expectations, fears when they are about to start a new job. With this study, I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers.

The participant information statement provided to you a full description of the project. The interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre- and onboarding process. It will take up to 30 minutes to complete, and with your permission, I would like to audio record this interview.

Is it okay for you?

[Speaker 1] (0:54 - 0:57)
Yes, of course, you have my permission, and thank you for having me for this interview.

[Speaker 2] (0:58 - 1:24)
Thank you for the time. It is not anticipated that the interview will include feelings of distress. I would like to highlight that.
However, if this occurs to you, you can stop the interview, take a break, or skip any questions that you don't like to answer. Okay, so let's start. So, can you tell me a little bit about yourself and your background?

[Speaker 1] (1:25 - 1:59)
Okay, so my name is Harry. I basically moved to Vienna four years ago. I'm 27 years old. 

I moved here to Vienna to complete my master's degree. Since then, I've mostly been focused on my studies, but also working part-time for different companies.
And just now, two weeks ago, I started working for a tech company here in Vienna. So right now, I'm almost about to finish my studies, and then I will focus on working full-time for this company.  

[Speaker 1] (2:00 - 2:11)
Right now, I'm working as a front-end developer. So that's in IT. And I will also be working as an IT security for the same company. 

But for now, it's mostly front-end development.

[Speaker 2] (2:12 - 2:18)
Great. Well, I wish you very luck in your new position. Can you tell me what nationality you have?

[Speaker 1] (2:19 - 2:25)
Yes, my nationality is Albanian, but I was born in Greece. But yeah, it's Albanian. 

[Speaker 2] (2:26 - 2:33)
Okay. And what sparked your interest in joining the company, actually?

[Speaker 1] (2:34 - 2:35)
Can you repeat that question, please?

[Speaker 2] (2:36 - 2:41)
What sparked your interest? Why were you interested in joining this company?

[Speaker 1] (2:42 - 3:16)
Yeah. Well, since a while back, I would say five years ago or so, I started developing websites on my own. So this started as a hobby.

But obviously, because I was also studying business informatics for both my bachelor's and my master's, I always had an interest in developing web solutions, web app solutions.  And this company is what exactly it does. So it does web app solutions for different businesses, small to medium-sized.

So I think this was the best fit for me. So it was exactly what I wanted. It's my interest and my hobby.

So I think I'm quite passionate about it.

[Speaker 2] (3:17 - 3:32)
Okay. And may I ask you one question regarding your character? What kind of characteristics define you as an employee at work?

So what kind of personality traits you offer at your workplace?

[Speaker 1] (3:33 – 4:10)
I would say that I'm quite passionate, energetic. I think that passion plays a huge role if you have a position. Because if you do something that you don't like, and maybe that's something that you hate, I think that performance will not be so good.

I would also say that I'm a very fast learner and very curious. This is what drives me and makes me move forward in order to learn new things every day and to expand my knowledges and everything. 
So yeah, I think these are my best traits. And also in every interview, I have talked about this. And I think all the interviewees have liked this before.

So yeah, I think these are nice traits to have. 

[Speaker 2]  (4:12 – 4:30)
And how would you describe, moving to the basic questions, the key questions, how would you describe the pre-boarding experience leading up to your first day at the company? So you have been working now for two weeks , you said, before you started.

[Speaker 1] (4:31 - 4:38)
Yeah, so the pre-boarding, I would say was, this also includes the emails and the interviews, right?

[Speaker 2] (4:40 - 4:50)
The emails. The interview is not included. Because the pre-boarding phase starts from the day that you start.

[Speaker 1] (4:52 - 5:37)
Okay, exactly. Yeah. So I would say with the current company, they were quite professional.

And I was also in close touch with the HR, the CTO and the CEO. So after I was accepted, I received an email from each department. So yeah, I would say the HR department and the CTO and CEO. 

They were quite responsive, really fast, I would say. And there were instructions, obviously. I was sent a contract, an agreement, everything was signed. 

So in this instance, I would say that it was really organized. So it was a positive experience to me. I also didn't have to wait for a long time for each email. 

Yeah, I think that's it.

[Speaker 2] (5:38 - 5:55)
So how did you actually feel? You say that everything was very good, organized. How did this type of communication and the frequency and quality of communication influence your thoughts about the company?

[Speaker 1] (5:56 - 6:51)
I think that because I've also had experiences with other companies where I was accepted, for example, the previous company that I was working for, and they weren't really so responsive. And to me, that means that they either weren't so interested in me, or maybe they were waiting for another candidate, even though they accepted me, or they weren't as professional as I thought them to be.  For this company that I'm working right now, as I said, it was positive because they were trying to complete everything.

And I would say that all the documents and everything was in order. So it didn't seem to me as if they weren't professional. On the contrary, I believe that they were quite well prepared and they were keen on moving forward with the application, with the documents and everything.

So to me, that created a positive image for the company.

[Speaker 2] (6:53 - 7:33)
Can you actually, because I want to highlight this, describe any emotions or impressions you experienced as you learn more about the organization's culture, values, mission during the pre-boarding phase? Maybe a mid-question, was there actually this kind of information during pre-boarding phase, or information regarding the culture of the company, the values, the mission? Was this type of information given to you?

And if yes, how did this make you feel? How did this impact your impressions?

[Speaker 1] (7:34 - 8:15)
I believe that the company was more focused on the technical stuff. So even on the interviews and the pre-boarding, the team was, as I said, mostly focused on this technical aspect of the company, rather than the culture, I would say. So to me, in the beginning, I wasn't really clear, but I didn't want to ask any questions to them regarding this, because I think that getting things done in the technical aspect is more important. 

However, in the past two weeks, we've also had different events where I was able to learn more about the team culture and everything. So I think the environment was way more friendly than I thought initially it would be.

[Speaker 2] (8:16 - 8:36)
Yes, but you are talking now about the on-boarding phase. Okay. So this will come at a later point in the interview.

I want, for the moment, us to focus on the pre-boarding phase. And you said the specific information you were given were mostly technical information.

[Speaker 1] (8:37 - 8:38)
Yes, I would say mostly technical.

[Speaker 2] (8:39 - 8:42)
So nothing else about the culture?

[Speaker 1] (8:42 - 8:44)
As far as I can remember, no.

[Speaker 2] (8:45 - 8:46)
Okay. Okay.

[Speaker 1] (8:48 - 9:26)
Sorry to interrupt. I mean, there were also, when I was speaking to the CEO on the pre-boarding phase, they would, of course, mention the fact that the company also has different events where everyone can attend if they want to, but it would be better, of course, if anyone attends. I also have to highlight the fact that I'm working remotely.

So maybe this also played a role in that. So the fact that I'm going to be remote means that I'm not going to be so much in touch as I thought I would be in person with other people of the company. So yeah, maybe that's also a reason why it wasn't heavily focused on this aspect.

[Speaker 2] (9:28 - 9:49)
But can you recall any instances where you felt that the organization actually went above and beyond to build trust with you during the pre-boarding phase? Did you feel something special they did that made you feel good and enthusiastic to join the company?

[Speaker 1] (9:51 - 10:22)
I don't think I can recall one specific instance of that. I would just say that they really valued my skills and my expertise, and I could tell that they were really interested in me as a person, as an employee. 

So they were ready to invest so that I could bring my own expertise to the company. So yeah, that's all I can say. I think I'm not sure if I can recall something specific.

[Speaker 2] (10:23 – 10:36)
But if the company would ask you, okay, what could they do more? Or better what could they have done more to instill trust during this phase? What would it be?

What would you want them to do during this phase?

[Speaker 1] (10:42 - 11:51)
Oh, okay. Now I actually have something because I just remembered. During the first interviews with the company, I also had another offer from another company.

I told them that I still have to think about it because I was in touch with another company, which is the one that I'm working right now. And when I told the current company that I also had received an offer from another company, they really seemed to be pushing more. So I also had an in-person interview where I saw that, okay, the CEO was really trying to convince me and join the company. 

And they were also talking about the different offers that they have. So for example, the different apps that they use in terms of, let's say there's an app called, I don't remember, but it's like a different, uh, how do you say? Cause I cannot really recall the different, um, usually a company has, for example, let's say some perks that they offer.

So for example, let's say free evenings or free events or whatever. So these were mentioned by the CEO when they were trying to, sorry?

[Speaker 2] (11:51 - 11:52)
Benefits you mean?

[Speaker 1] (11:53 - 12:19)
Benefits, exactly. Cause I couldn't find the word. So I was also told that the company has a lot of benefits and then I was listed all of them. 

So I, at that moment, I think that the company was really trying to push forward and also onboard me. So that made me feel more special. And at the very same day when I was having the interview with this company, I made my decision, okay, I'm going to have to join them because they were really pushing. 

And it seemed like they wanted me to join the company.

[Speaker 2] (12:20 - 12:22)
Thank you for highlighting that. That is important.

[Speaker 1] (12:22 - 12:24)
So I just remembered that. Yeah.

[Speaker 2] (12:25 - 12:31)
Okay. So, uh, how long did the pre-boarding phase, uh, last for you? So.

[Speaker 1] (12:32 - 12:58)
Uh, so from the moment I was, I received an offer, the contract until the onboarding, I would say it was 10 days  or so. Okay. 10 days.

If I'm not sure, if I'm mistaken, I would say 10 days to two weeks. It also had to do regarding my, the process of my visa. So that also played a role in that.

So it was kind of delayed because of that.

[Speaker 2] (13:00 - 13:08)
Great. So the pre-boarding phase is over. Now you are the onboarding phase.

You are now working for two weeks at the company, right?

[Speaker 1] (13:09 - 13:09)
Yes.

[Speaker 2] (13:10 - 13:25)
What were your, uh, if you recall your first day at work, what were your initial feelings upon starting at the company and how did the onboarding process contribute to these emotions? Do you recall your first day?

[Speaker 1] (13:26 - 14:41)
Yeah, of course. Uh, I would say that I was very confident since the first day I wasn't anxious, unlike my first, uh, experiences with other companies.  I guess this also has to do with obviously experience, but everyone was very friendly.

And I also have to highlight the fact that on the first two days, I was at two very long meetings, which lasted eight hours, each of them. So I was able to be in touch with the team, most specifically with the CEO and the CTO.  Um, I was introduced to the team, even though the company is a little bit small, the office and most of the employees are remote. 

We also had all my meetings so that, uh, I could introduce myself and everyone could also introduce themselves to me. Uh, and then I was also given some really specific tasks. Most of them were for onboarding.

So setting everything up in terms of hardware, software, uh, my work environment and everything.  And then we agreed that I would also have to jump immediately to start solving some tickets, which regarding my work, my professional front end development, uh, I would say they are very specific tickets where you solve, uh, different bugs or different features that have to do with softwares.

[Speaker 1] (14:42 - 14:50)
So the first experience was really good and positive, I would say, and quite professional.  

[Speaker 2] (14:50 – 15:05)
Let's concentrate a bit to how you felt. Can you describe any specific aspects of the onboarding process that influenced your initial feelings upon starting?
Can you recall something or how, how did this or that make you feel, for example?


[Speaker 1] (15:07 - 15:59)
Um, as I said, I started really confident, but of course we have emotions and they tend to play a huge role in our daily lives. So when I was introduced with all of this new stuff, I was overwhelmed and I felt a bit anxious and stressed, but then I was thinking, okay, this is what happens in every company and every onboarding. So everything requires some time. 

Uh, I would like, I said, if I would say that I didn't feel stressed, yes, I felt a lot of stress. Uh, not because of, in terms of expertise, but as I said, it's because it was something new and your company and your environment. So that plays a role. 

Um, but even though I still stay in touch with the HR and they were trying to, they said, take your time and everything is going to be well, don't worry about it. It's a new thing. So we all know how it feels like. 

So I would say I felt really comforted by the team.

[Speaker 2] (16:00 - 16:05)
And how were your colleagues? How are they up to now?

[Speaker 1] (16:06 - 16:31)
I would say really friendly and everyone is very helpful . When I have a question or something, I always tend to ask HR first. And then if there's something technical, I'm always in touch with the CTO and they always find the time to explain something to me.

I would also highlight the fact that the documentations of the company are very well explained.  So sometimes I don't even have to stay in touch with the, with my employees because I don't want to disrupt their workflow.

[Speaker 1] (16:31 - 16:45)
So therefore my first choice would be to go to the documentation and the Q and A's, the FAQs, how I say the most frequently asked questions, FAQs, and then stay in touch with the team, but still they're very friendly and very helpful. 

[Speaker 2] (16:47- 16:58)
And how up to this point, up to now, how does the onboarding experience align with or differ from your expectations based on the pre-boarding process?

[Speaker 1] (17:00 - 17:37)
As I said, because the company was quite technical since the beginning and they seemed quite professional, I would say that they even exceeded my expectations. I thought they would be a little bit more, let's say a little bit less professional, but in the end, still to this day, they're quite well prepared. And I think they've thought out of every single aspect.

So even when I'm facing, let's say bugs or errors or anything that is related to technical stuff and they have troubleshooting documentations. So I think they're well prepared for everything. They have taken quite some time to give a focus on the onboarding aspect of an employee. 

[Speaker 2] (17:38 - 17:53)
And can you provide an example of moments that made you feel particularly valued or supported? Do you recall any specific moment that, okay, aha, this made you feel good or valued?

[Speaker 1] (17:54 - 18:39)
Yeah. For example, I'm doing one task of the onboarding, which is the local setup. Basically, I was given some hardware from the company, which in this case was a laptop.

And I have to do all the onboarding stuff, setting up my accounts and everything. This takes quite some time and requires a lot of technical knowledge. But since I didn't have all of this knowledge, I was given some instructions and I was also in touch with the HR and the CTO.

And I told them, okay, I'm going to be honest, some of this, I don't know. And they said, you don't have to worry at all about it because we're all in your shoes. So they know how it feels like to be onboarded on a company and everyone faced the same, let's say the same errors that I faced. 

[Speaker 1] (18:40 - 18:47)
And for everything that I would face difficulties, they would always be supportive and there to reply and give me some feedback.  

[Speaker 2] (18:48- 18:57)
And how did this moment of support or inclusion contribute to your overall perception of the organization as an employee?

[Speaker 1] (18:58 - 19:33)
It definitely made a really good positive perception to the company because if I were to compare it with another company that I used to work, everyone would always try to be a little bit more individual. So everyone will try to find solutions or they are on their own. But in this case with this company, everyone is helping each other.

So this has definitely impacted my opinion towards the company. And I feel like I'm safe hands. And yeah, that's what I can say. 

It's a pretty good image that I've created for the company so far.

[Speaker 2] (19:33 - 19:47)
That is nice to hear. But were there any missed opportunities or areas where you wish the organization had provided more support or recognition during these two weeks of onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (19:49 - 20:20)
I wouldn't say so because as I said, they've been on the market for a couple of years and we're a team of about 40 people. Most of them are developers, 30 something, I would say 35, if I'm not mistaken. So even me, for example, if I didn't follow the instructions properly or if something new was found, we have to document this for future employees.

So we always take notes of something that is not correct or something that needs to be improved. 

[Speaker 1] (20:21 - 21:08)
So I think for the years that the company has been on the market, they have really taken their time to, OK, let's think about everything so that the future employee will not face any errors or any difficulties. So that has made it definitely way easier for me than what it was to others before. 

[Speaker 2] (20:39 – 21:07) 
Harry, thank you for your insights.
We are now almost to the end of our interview. I want to do just a couple of more short questions to ask your opinion. Are there any suggestions or recommendations you would offer to improve the pre and onboarding experience for future candidates at your company, for example?
Do you have suggestions about that?

[Speaker 1] (21:09 - 21:09)
At my company?

[Speaker 2] (21:10 - 21:10)
Yes.

[Speaker 1] (21:13 - 21:42)
For now, for the current company, I wouldn't say that I have any suggestions because as I said, they were quite well prepared and they seemed quite professional. They were also friendly. So from what I said, from my own experience, everything was quite positive if I were to compare with other companies.

If you were to ask me for other companies, yes, I would give you some feedback. But for the current one, I think I'm very well satisfied. So I don't have any comments regarding to that.

[Speaker 2] (21:42 - 21:54)
OK, so I'm asking you another way around. So in your opinion, what are the most important factors for building trust with new employees during the pre and onboarding phase?

[Speaker 1] (21:57 - 22:32)
That is a good question. For the preboarding, I would say response time definitely plays a huge role in this.  So, for example, if an employee gets an offer or a contract or a verbal agreement, let's say, I would really appreciate the fact if the company at least tried to reply to the emails faster within possibly a couple of days , I would say one or two, because this is beneficial for both parties.

From my perspective, as someone who was looking for a job, this definitely plays a role because I'm always actively looking for a job.

[Speaker 1] (22:33 - 23:19)
So to me, a quick response time is really beneficial and very, I would say, very crucial. At the same time, from the company's perspective, I would say that they seem quite more professional if they respond quicker and faster.  That also is beneficial to them because the sooner you get done with the documents and everything, you can start onboarding and you can have the employee actually on the team and start working for you.

So that plays a huge role, I think. Time is essential. Time is money, as we say.

[Speaker 2]  (23:06 – 23:20)
Thank you. The last question. What advice would you give to other candidates who are about to go through the pre and onboarding process at a new organization based on your experience?

[Speaker 1] (23:21 - 23:53)
I would say follow all the steps that the company gives you. So when you get an agreement or a contract and you are asked to submit the documents, try to be as precise as possible, try to be as cooperative as possible with the company. And I would say precise.

So that's at least what I've done. Always try to seem professional with the company and be confident in your expertise and everything you have to offer to the company. So, yeah, I think that's what I can say for now.

[Speaker 2] (23:55 - 24:07)
Right. Hardy, thank you very much for your time and for your valuable insights. Thank you.

It was very much appreciated and I wish you very good luck in your new journey.

[Speaker 1] (24:08 - 24:17)
Thank you. It was a pleasure also for me because this was a nice interview and the questions were always also very specific and very well prepared. So thank you for this interview.

Thank you.







Interview 2 

[Speaker 2] (0:00 - 0:07)
Okay, hello and thank you very much for accepting my invitation for an interview.

[Speaker 1] (0:08 - 0:10)
Okay, welcome, my pleasure.

[Speaker 2] (0:11 - 0:59)
So, the study that I'm conducting aims to reveal new employees' underlying feelings, expectations, fears when they are about to start a new position. With this study, I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers. The participant information that statement provided to you, a full description of the project.

As already explained, the interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre and onboarding process. It will take up to 30 minutes to complete and with your permission, I would like to audio record the interview. Is that okay for you?

[Speaker 1] (0:59 - 1:01)
Yes, it's fine.

[Speaker 2] (1:01 - 1:48)
Okay, thank you. One more thing, it is not anticipated that the interview will include feelings of distress. However, if this occurs, you can stop the interview, take a break, skip any questions that you don't want to answer.

Okay. Okay, so let's begin. First of all, I would like to ask you regarding your type of character or characteristics.

So, what kind of characteristic defines you as an employee at work? I mean, what kind of personality traits you offer? You are, for example, you could be organized, responsible, proactive, anxious, insecure.

So, these types of characteristics. What defines you?

[Speaker 1] (1:49 - 2:17)
Okay, I could define myself. Well, first of all, I am more on the extroverted side, very social, very friendly. I ask questions a lot. 

If I don't know something, I am proactive. What else? What I've been told is that I'm very collaborative and very trustful and trustworthy for other people.

And I do well with time management and stress management. 

[Speaker 2] (2:19 - 2:28)
And let's start again from the other way around. Can you tell me a little bit about yourself and your background?

[Speaker 1] (2:29 - 2:53)
Yeah, sure. So, my name is Melanie. I'm 32 years old. 

I come from this way from Greece, I'd say and Albania as well.  I have both nationalities. I have worked in Albania for eight years in Raiffeisenbank and then came to Vienna for, again, Raiffeisenbank,  
but as a scrum master  now.

[Speaker 2] (2:56 - 2:59)
And how long have you been working?

[Speaker 1] (3:00 - 3:02)
Here for seven months now. 

[Speaker 2] (3:02 - 3:08)
Okay, okay. And what sparked your interest in joining Raiffeisen here in Austria?

[Speaker 1] (3:09 - 3:50)
Well, I worked for eight years for the same company while it was in Albania, but still. And I really liked the culture of it and the diversity and the way that they started to be a bit more international. And so, it was no problem for non-German speakers to be adopted in the company.

So, it was easier. And of course, coming from a non-EU company to going to a new country, it's a big difference for this and more training, availability, more experts around. So, you can be more ahead.

[Speaker 2] (3:51 - 4:06)
Okay. Let's concentrate a bit on the pre-boarding phase of your experience. How would you describe the pre-boarding experience leading up to your first day at the company?

[Speaker 1] (4:09 - 5:57)
In my case, it wasn't that hard in the way that it is compared to other non-EU citizens because I have an EU citizenship and it was less documents and less requirements for me to join the company. It was, I think, after two months, two months and a half that I joined because I needed to be one month for the work I was in. And then I took a month off because I had also some personal and family things to take care of.

It's not easy to move a country. Well, they contacted me directly with my offer. They sent me the contract. I had to sign it and send it back. No need for hard copies or things like that, just by email or scanning, things like that. They had a list of documents I had to provide and that took a couple of weeks to take care because depending on the laws and how the documentation can be provided by school or by the national institutions and things like that. 

And that was it. And then they sent me some more information regarding housing because we also have a relocation package that helps a lot money-wise  and also with information and information about E-card and I think for metal centre as well . So, it was some kind of good information and a guide of what is expected of you when you come here. 

[Speaker 2] (5:59 - 6:09)
And how did you feel about the organisation's communication and engagement efforts during this period?

[Speaker 1] (6:09 - 6:58)
Well, the girl that was supposed to take care of my case and things like that, she was very responsive and with whatever questions that I had, she was very quick to respond.  
So, I felt like secure in a way. So, I was safe to have like to be more, how can I say it, not safe, but just like secure and that I'll find everything and I'll like have everything in place in a way. 

Of course, you are scared because it's a different country, it's a different language and you are not sure what you'll find here.  But in regard to that, whatever question that I had, there was a reply for me and like accurate information.

[Speaker 2] (6:59 - 7:11)
And how did the frequency and quality of communication during the pre-boarding influence your expectations for your role in the organisation company?

[Speaker 1] (7:13 - 8:09)
Well, sometimes I would have liked to get the information ahead, but I think in two months that I was in Albania and I was waiting, it was okay because I got information since the first days regarding documentation and contracts and things like that. And then after a month, they started contacting me about housing and who is going to take care of me the first days of work. This, they had this on-boarding thing with, they call it a buddy.

So, they assign you someone from your department or a colleague that he takes care of you the first days. So, this email came to me some days before. I would have liked to be a little bit earlier because it was like, where do I go, what do I do, who I contact and things like that. 

And that was like this. Okay.

[Speaker 2] (8:11 - 8:34)
Okay. So, these are the only impressions or feelings you had during the pre-boarding or can you describe something else that you remember you felt during this period, good or bad? It doesn't matter.

Also, regarding the organisation's culture, values, expectations?

[Speaker 1] (8:34 - 9:08)
The organisation is pretty new in a way. So, it wasn't something very foreign to me, but it was this feeling of having all foreigners around me, not just Austrians, there are from all over the world. And I have never had this kind of experience before. 

So, it was a bit scary and anxious and everything, of course. But the communication I had with HR and later then with my manager was making me feel easier. 

[Speaker 2] (9:10 - 9:24)
Did the HR explain to you something regarding company's culture and values during the pre-boarding time or was it more like a technical?

[Speaker 1] (9:25 - 10:09)
In my case, not as much because I already knew the company. So, I was part of the same international, let's say. So, we have the same values throughout the network and the same culture.

So, but they kind of tried to explain to me how it works in Raiffeisen because here in RBI, like in Vienna, it's way bigger and it has a lot more companies and things like that. So, they tried to kind of explain to me how the hierarchy works or how the structure works and some things like that. But otherwise, about culture and values, we are kind of the same and it wasn't in my case, at least.

I don't know what happened for others.

[Speaker 2] (10:09 - 10:20)
But were there any aspects of the company's culture here in Vienna that actually surprised you or stood out to you during this time?

[Speaker 1] (10:21 - 10:57)
Yeah, sure. People here are more responsible and they don't take things personally. They just come to work and have their job done in a way and they are, of course, proactive.

They are, of course, ambitious, but they don't get in the way of other people in a bad way. And that's very good. And there's also more careful communication with each other. 

So, it's not like being diplomatic, but it's in the way that we don't hurt each other's feelings when we have something to criticize or we have something that is going wrong. 

[Speaker 2] (10:58 - 11:08)
Did you notice this type of communications in the HR department? Because for the onboarding part, we're going to talk a bit later.

[Speaker 1] (11:09 - 11:25)
In the HR, it was like a normal HR interviews. I mostly did the interviews with the managers. HR was very little involvement from HR, like very few questions from them. 

[Speaker 2] (11:26 - 11:49)
Let's talk about management. Did they do anything specific to make you feel particularly valued for joining the company during the pre-boarding phase? Do you recall anything that made you feel good and appreciate the fact that you were gonna start your new journey there?

[Speaker 1] (11:50 - 12:30)
Well, I remember that the HR lady said that, well, in my case, there were two agile coaches that wanted my position as a scrum master. So, they had two places. And I remember she said that the agile coaches are fighting over who is going to take you.
So, that made me think that I am valued.  
And also, during the questions and the interview part, they were laughing or having some reaction to what I was saying. So, that's a good feeling and you can read it on their faces sometimes when it's good. 

[Speaker 2] (12:31 - 12:42)
Okay. And can you recall any instances or is this one of them where you felt the organization went above and beyond to build trust with you?

[Speaker 1] (12:47 - 13:32)
Well, they try to make you to be more attractive to you with saying that they have experts or they are doing things very well or at least they try to introduce you to other colleagues. So, you have a feeling of being welcomed. So, I get to meet also the other scrum master that I will be working with at least more closely and have a feeling of the team. 

I met two or three other colleagues in an interview. They introduced me. Also, they try to sell you the benefits of the bank and things like that.

But for me, it was like I wanted to be here. It was easy to sell.

[Speaker 2] (13:34 - 13:45)
Right. So, were there actually any missed opportunities or areas where you felt, okay, the organization could have done more about you to install trust?

[Speaker 1] (13:49 - 14:21)
No, I don't think. They were very transparent with me  because sometimes people get confused if the job is fully remote or not or if it is RBI or one of the companies because a lot of people get confused and they were very clear what it actually is. So, I wasn't like having great expectations and not fulfilling them.

So, that was good in their part.

[Speaker 2] (14:22 - 14:41)
And in your case, if there is any, how did your level of trust in the organization evolve or change as a result of your pre-boarding experience? 

[Speaker 1] (14:43 - 15:18)
Well, it was very good, actually. I mean, I didn't have a bad experience, so it wasn't worse than what I expected. So, it was not better, but something that I expected, I would say.

So, they had clear information, they had clear procedures, they had people to take care of you, so it was what you would expect from an international company. Nothing out of the ordinary, but also not bad. 

[Speaker 2] (15:19 - 15:37)
And let's move now to the onboarding phase, first day of work. What were your initial feelings upon starting your first day in the company and how did the onboarding process contribute to those emotions?

[Speaker 1] (15:39 - 17:01)
Of course, I was scared. I was like, how is my colleague going to look like, going to feel like? How are they going to like receive me? 

Are they going to be welcome or are they going to be racist or are they going to be feeling like, I don't know, who is she, where is she coming from, why is she here? 
Because also the scrum master could be sometimes considered as a team leader and, you know, coming from outside, it's like a different feeling. Well, I didn't have any of these feelings when I got to the office.

Well, the colleague that received me, he was very polite and welcoming and tried to show me everything and everything was prepared for me.  So my desk, my laptop was ready and we went to take the codes and he had the checklist with things that I needed to do for me to be onboarded. So this helped a lot.

So they were prepared for me. I didn't feel like, OK, no one is here for me or no one is welcoming me. That was very nice of them. 

But everything was prepared and I had things to do since day one. So there were a lot of onboarding trainings that I had to do and they were assigned to me since day one.

[Speaker 2] (17:04 - 17:32)
But can you describe any specific aspects of the onboarding process that influenced your initial feelings? So you said that I first felt scared, but not anymore when I met my colleagues. What kind of feelings did you have then during the first day and also later?

[Speaker 1] (17:32 - 17:43)
Feelings, I don't remember now. Well, I felt happy to be there in a way, because it was everything.

[Speaker 2] (17:43 - 18:00)
The question is actually, how did others make you feel? And when I say others, are managers included, HR, your colleagues during this phase, everything that you can recall during this period?

[Speaker 1] (18:01 - 18:55)
With HR, I didn't meet them again for quite long. I just met the HR girl once in the offices. So with HR, we have no contact anymore, usually, except if we need something, questions regarding HR that we might reach out.

But face to face, we don't meet with them anymore. Well, I always felt welcomed in the beginning. They were all very polite, ready to introduce me to other people and to show me around. 

I didn't feel any bad feelings in a way, or sometimes it was confusing of what to do or what's next. But I don't think I had bad feelings. It was very welcoming of them.

[Speaker 2] (18:55 - 19:05)
You said that at the beginning, everyone was welcoming. Was this just only at the beginning?

[Speaker 1] (19:06 - 19:44)
No, it still is. I mean, I haven't had kids. I told you, people try to be careful when they speak, so they don't offend anyone or don't make anyone feel, I don't know, mistreated or things like that. 

It's another thing if you're doing something wrong. It's another thing if you have to discuss things or, I don't know, have to do work. But it's another thing to feel like, I don't know, discriminated or mistreated or feel racism or things like that.

So no, I think I'm still feeling very well there.

[Speaker 2] (19:45 - 20:02)
And did the manager and other colleagues at work make something that really made you feel good during this phase, that you can immediately remember, so to say?

[Speaker 1] (20:05 - 20:25)
I don't remember something specific per se. It's just the way that they introduced me to everyone with full confidence and that we have a new scrum master and she will be with you and help you. And that's what was important for me as well.

So they had trust in me and that was very good. 

[Speaker 2] (20:26 - 20:40)
Okay. And how did the onboarding experience align with or differ from your expectations based on the pre-boarding communications? Was it better?

Was it worse?

[Speaker 1] (20:42 - 21:46)
Well, the only information that I had from the pre-boarding was that I would have a buddy, like a person that would take care of my onboarding. So I didn't know what to expect in a way.  But also, as I told you, I've been in the company and kind of knew most of the things or some of the things, let's say.

So then when I got to the company, I told you this. They had HR together with managers, have created some checklists for the people to onboard. So they need to have access card.

They need to have a laptop. They need to have a desk. They need to have these trainings assigned to them.

They need to meet with everyone. And then that is like the social part of it. But they had this, especially for the technical part, since I was part of the IT department and they had this all, let's say, in a special procedure just for onboarding.

They have confluence pages with all the documentation that you need and you read and procedures. So it was, I think, more than expected.

[Speaker 2] (21:49 - 22:01)
Melanie, can you describe any emotional highs or lows you experienced during your onboarding journey and how they affect your trust in the organization?

[Speaker 1] (22:03 - 22:45)
The lows, I would say, are mostly when, especially in the beginning, because my teams were both technical, very technical teams. And when they started speaking tech, I was like, not there. And I was feeling, am I going to be able to do this thing or do I don't understand anything?

How is this going to affect my work here? But then, with time, it got better. And also, my manager told me that in most cases, you don't even have to listen to what they say.

I mean, it's not important for you. For you, important is the organizational part. Can you please ask the question again?

[Speaker 2] (22:46 - 23:16)
No, the question is about your feelings, highs or lows of your experience during the onboarding journey. And you mentioned a bit that the managers, when you felt this way, kind of gave you advice. Can you recall something that really made them supportive towards you, that you really appreciate them doing for you?

[Speaker 1] (23:17 - 23:59)
Well, they asked me, how are you doing? How are things at home? Because I was also relocating and trying to fix everything and documentation.
So, they were like, how are you doing? Have you been anywhere? Do you need help with something? 

Even for tourism things. Like, what did you do in the weekend? And then, for the work part, of course, are the teams making you feel welcome?

What do you need professionally? And things like that. So, they were trying to take feedback from my side as well, not just me going to them when I needed help. 

[Speaker 2] (23:59 - 24:10)
Okay. Were there any challenges or difficulties? Really, really challenges that you encountered during onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (24:11 - 24:37)
I wouldn't say difficult things that I couldn't suppress or support. Like, I told you, the most challenges were the technical part that I didn't understand with the colleagues. And it took me a couple of weeks until I understood how they work, but not like big challenges where I got stuck or something.

[Speaker 2] (24:37 - 24:55)
Regarding the technical things that you face, challenges, did you overpass this challenge by yourself or did the management and the other colleagues help you overcome this?

[Speaker 1] (24:56 - 25:56)
Well, this was part of the onboarding, actually. And after a couple of weeks, they also started to show me how the technical part works, like infrastructure or what are the business side of the products that we work with. And they tried to explain to me how everything works in a way, but I needed to get a bit into the teams.

And then it's also sometimes part of the timelines and things like that, who is there, who isn't. Because I joined in September and a lot of people still were on vacation, so it depended. But yeah, they tried to help me with that as well.

So, they tried to make me understand how the teams work, how are they collaborating with each other, what systems do we have. I mean, not in details because it's not important for my work, but at least so I understand how they work. 

[Speaker 2] (25:58 - 26:12)
We have come almost to the end of our interview. Just a couple more questions. First of them, how do you feel in general now about your experience with the pre and onboarding phase?

[Speaker 1] (26:13 - 26:41)
Well, I feel very good actually and content. There are some things that might have been better here and there. Some of them I have already talked with my buddy, let's say, or the person that did the onboarding with me.

But it's very minor things just for minor improvements and things like that. The same things came up with other new hires.

[Speaker 2] (26:42 - 26:48)
Could you give any specific example of the recommendations that you gave?

[Speaker 1] (26:49 - 27:40)
I told you about this checklist that was there and there were some parts that needed to be updated or something had changed. I remember they tried to employ people that know JIRA. JIRA is one of our systems that we work on and the training part of it, let's say, it was very, very superficial and I was like, okay, I have worked with JIRA and someone else might have, but we at some point might have some new hire that hasn't worked.

So, we need to have something more specific in there. So, it has to do more in training and things like that because in procedure-wise, it was fine. I mean, it's not that confusing or maybe where to find some materials, include some more links somewhere.

[Speaker 2] (27:41 - 27:50)
In your opinion, what are the most important factors for building trust with new employees during the pre and onboarding phases?

[Speaker 1] (27:51 - 28:24)
Well, information is very important. So, as to be as clear as they can with documentation, with the steps that you need to take, where are you going, how are you doing this and all these things, information and transparency, of course. Well, they have to trust you as well and to show the trust that they have in you. 

That's why they got you into that position. That's why you got the job. And also, how many did you say?

Five? Five.

[Speaker 2] (28:24 - 28:29)
I mean, I didn't say any number, but in your opinion?

[Speaker 1] (28:31 - 28:47)
So, they always should keep their word. If they promise you something, they should make that expectation because otherwise, then you will be distrustful to them. 

[Speaker 2] (28:47 - 29:00)
Okay. And last question. What advice would you give to another candidate who is about to go through the pre and onboarding process at a new organization from your experience?

[Speaker 1] (29:01 - 29:28)
Okay. I would say trust the process because sometimes we tend to be very rushed and start to panic. How about this?

How about that? Because everything has its own pace, let's say. And just trust the process and the company.

And if you have questions, always ask because they will reply. They want you there. That's the thing.

[Speaker 2] (29:30 - 29:39)
Melanie, thank you for the time. This was the interview. 

It was very valued. You gave valuable insights for this study.





Interview 3 

[Speaker 2] (0:02 - 0:48)
Hello and welcome to my interview. Thank you for finding the time. 

[Speaker 1] 
Pleasure is mine.

[Speaker 2] 
This study, a little bit of introduction. At the beginning, the study aims to reveal new employees' underlying feelings, expectations and fears when they are about to start a new position. With this study, I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers.

The interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre- and onboarding process. It will take up to 30 minutes to complete and with your permission, I would like to audio record this interview. Is it okay for you?

[Speaker 1] (0:49 - 0:49)
Yeah, sure, sure.

[Speaker 2] (0:51 - 1:12)
Thank you. It is not anticipated that the interview will include feelings of distress. However, if this occurs, you can stop the interview, take a break or skip any questions that you don't like to answer.

Okay. So, let's begin. Can you please tell me a little bit about yourself, your background?

[Speaker 1] (1:14 - 1:59)
Yeah, sure. So, I'm Imed Ristemi. I originally am from North Macedonia. 

I'm Albanian by nationality and ethnicity. So, currently I'm working here as a senior web developer and as a consultant.  
So, in about three months  and I have been working with development in the past like six years approximately.

So, yeah, my fields were basically in the consulting industry working on and with several pharmaceutical industries as well. 

[Speaker 2] (2:00 - 2:14)
Okay. May I ask you something regarding your characteristics? So, what kind of characteristics define you as an employee at work?

What kind of personality traits you offer at your workplace?

[Speaker 1] (2:15 - 2:56)
I would say regarding… I want to be punctual in my workplace and respectful to the others, open and friendly most importantly to me.  Need to have…always I'm searching for good like work-life culture there and I'm trying to fit in in the group. It might be bad maybe for my personal like psychological aspect, but I'm always trying to do my best like hard working.

[Speaker 1] (2:57 - 3:09)
But even though sometimes it might get me into more stress than anticipated, which I guess maybe every other developer does that. So, yeah. Okay.

[Speaker 2] (3:11 – 3:33)
Let's jump. So, you said you are at your new position for three months now. Let's go back in time a little bit at the pre-boarding phase.

How would you describe the pre-boarding experience leading up to your first day at the company? What happened during this period of time?

[Speaker 1] (3:35 - 6:10)
Well, after the application on the job posting, which was carried on by another external agency, I was… I started like the, of course, the interview process with the current like employer. And after that, we had like three or four interviews and I got the green light that I have been approved.

And then we just started the procedure of the… with the migration agency in this case, MI35. And I gave my authorization to the employer in this case, my current employer, to proceed with the visa in my name here in Austria and Vienna.

So, it took approximately one month since the application and getting like the green light from the migration agency in this case.  In the meantime, the whole process from the interview, green light, approval, admission to the new workplace and also the visa, it took almost like a month and so, almost two months maximum. So, in the meantime, I was, I would say, daily in contact with my current director in this case , because it's a startup inside of a bigger company, like a bigger corporate, but still it doesn't have like a vertical hierarchy inside.

So, we were pretty much really connected with him in this case. And I always was getting updates regarding my status in this case for the visa, for the onboarding in this case, which is like creating the needed accounts and if I needed some support.  What I didn't get that others, as I heard, are getting is the relocation package,  in this case, help for finding an apartment, housing or anything like that during the onboarding time, pre-boarding time actually.

So, that was a bit distressful. Okay.

[Speaker 2] (6:12 - 6:22)
I want to ask you, how did you feel about the organization's communication and their engagement efforts during this period?

[Speaker 1] (6:24 - 6:49)
Actually, they were very professional, but in the meantime, very friendly, because everything was, like I didn't have to do any bureaucracy or anything like that.  I was just given from them the opportunity to proceed with all the processes here, like regarding the visa, regarding the insurance and all that stuff.

[Speaker 2] (6:52 - 7:00)
Were there any specific communication channels or methods that you found particularly effective or inadequate?

[Speaker 1] (7:02 - 7:44)
Mainly the communication was done through emails. And we also had some, because they are using Cisco Java, which is like a communication platform. And when I needed to have a video communication with any site from the employer, I was just invited to that application, to that system and that's it.

But mainly emails and also phone calls. We were doing a lot of phone calls, directly cell phone calls. 

[Speaker 2] (7:44 - 7:54)
And how did the frequency and the quality of communication during pre-boarding influence your expectations for your role in the organization?

[Speaker 1] (7:58 - 8:30)
Honestly, influence in a positive manner in this case, because that friendly but professional behavior gave me a bit more like a warm feeling towards my upcoming new adventure in this case.  So I think it helped during that, I would say, psychologically to ease me into getting into this new thing. So yeah, it helped a lot.

[Speaker 2] (8:31 - 8:38)
What specific information or messages resonated with you during this period?

[Speaker 1] (8:43 - 9:23)
Mostly were related to the, as I mentioned, to the visa status, because they were constantly in contact with the agency here. But also the needed documentation going back and forth, like some documentation needed my signature there. So yeah, that's mainly the main topic of my discussions, but also my requirements for the workplace in this case.

And yeah, just also how I feel in general. So yeah, it was good.

[Speaker 2] (9:24 - 9:36)
Can you describe any emotions or impressions you experienced as you learned more about the company's culture, values and mission during the pre-boarding phase?

[Speaker 1] (9:40 - 10:32)
There were mixed emotions in this case. Maybe the frightening, like being afraid of moving into totally new place or country was sometimes overwhelming my warm feelings towards the new place, towards the new employer. It was like fluctuating. 

It was depending on the days. But in this case, I would say, yeah, at the end, they somehow, with all this communication and their friendliness, they provided me with good emotions in this case, and I was sure that I did the right decision. 

[Speaker 2] (10:32 - 10:47)
And what surprised you the most or what stood out to you during this time that you would particularly especially mention that the company did for you to make you feel good?

[Speaker 1] (10:50 - 11:44)
Just getting in constant touch, constantly in communicating with me, caring about the needs in this case, and if I have any further requirements , further requirements related, for example, to equipment, or even though they didn't provide relocation, like support package with any agency, but still they, especially the director, was always asking what is the status and if he is required to help me in the moving process with the apartment and that stuff.

For example, I needed some documentation while looking for an apartment, and immediately, like in a day, they provided me that stuff. So I saw that, okay, they are professional, so that gave me a good...

[Speaker 2] (11:45 - 12:02)
And in your opinion, were there any missed opportunities or areas where you felt the organization could have done better or more to install trust?

[Speaker 1] (12:05 - 12:56)
Yes, in this case, just the relocation thing, if it's included, would be really good.  And also maybe just to support the travel, maybe trip prior to getting into that workplace or onboarding to get more to know the organization in terms of, for example, getting you into the office before onboarding.  Because I got into the office, but the first day, like when I got there, so maybe it would be better for them or the future employers or other employers just to provide this to the prospect, like employees.

[Speaker 2] (12:57 - 13:14)
And how did your level of trust in the organization evolve or change as a result of your pre-boarding experience? Was the trust increasing, decreasing, in your opinion, based on your feelings?

[Speaker 1] (13:15 - 13:28)
I would say it was increasing trust based on their alertness and professionalism. So I would say it was increasing. 

[Speaker 2] (13:29 - 14:00)
Okay. So the pre-boarding phase is over. Now it's time for the first day at work.

It's the time where the onboarding phase starts. I would like to make a couple of questions regarding this phase too. The first one, what were your initial feelings upon starting your first day at the company and how did the onboarding process contribute to those emotions?

Can you recall? How did you feel?

[Speaker 1] (14:02 - 15:38)
Yes, the post-first day feelings, I would say, were mixed. Initially, I anticipated a bit colder culture here from the other colleagues and the teams.  However, I was surprisingly, in a positive manner, surprised actually because they really welcomed me in a good way in this case. 

Also, everything from the equipment requirements that I have stated during my pre-boarding phase was waiting for me at the table or was done in two or three days maximum. So in this case, it was a bit strange for me to get into this corporate culture because I'm coming from a consulting industry and not so hierarchical levels. Even though, as I said, this was like a startup inside of a bigger company.

However, still some processes I saw that take a bit longer compared to my ex-employer. So I would say that was a bit harder for me to accept as a reality, but which, of course, with time, it just disappeared. Like I'm getting used to it.

[Speaker 2] (15:39 - 15:51)
Were there any surprises or unexpected elements of the onboarding process that impacted your emotions during the first day at work?

[Speaker 1] (15:53 - 16:37)
I wouldn't say. No, it was just like that. Just an ease onboarding started with some onboarding trainings. 

That stuff, it took like two weeks to get all those trainings about the in-house products, systems that they are using, for example, for project management, for timesheet collections and all that stuff. So I wouldn't say that something really surprised me in that case. Only I would say maybe the good conditions, working conditions there.

Because they do have a lot of benefits there, so that's why.

[Speaker 2] (16:38 - 16:43)
And how was the communication with your colleagues during the onboarding phase?

[Speaker 1] (16:45 - 17:06)
Yeah, I was highly surprised for positive in this case. They were accepting me, they did accept me pretty well, actually, they welcomed me and they were inviting me for lunch and all that stuff. So it felt really good. 

[Speaker 2] (17:07 - 17:14)
Did it continue to be that way afterwards? Up to this point that we are speaking?

[Speaker 1] (17:15 - 17:19)
Yeah, it does continue till now, yeah. I think even better now.

[Speaker 2] (17:20 - 17:38)
Can you describe any emotional highs or lows you experienced during this onboarding journey? And how did they affect your trust in the organization? Can you mention something specifically?

[Speaker 1] (17:41 - 18:26)
I don't think I have something specifically during the onboarding phase. Only sometimes, for example, the communication through email, maybe it continues to be done as well in German, then it made me a bit left out in this case.  But it didn't affect my trust, but still maybe a bit affected my emotions in this case.

For example, I felt a bit left out in this case from the game.

[Speaker 2] (18:28 - 18:38)
Did you talk about this situation with the manager, supervisor, and how did they react to your issue?

[Speaker 1] (18:38 - 19:35)
Yeah, so I have bi-weekly meetings with my supervisor in this case, where I'm just sharing my honest feedback with him. And yes, I did address this one. And I was assured that he shouldn't bother me in this case, because they are working into bilingual communication or conversation or like official emails sent to all employees.

And they have started actually doing that. Maybe the reason is because the company's policy, or actually like before two or three years ago, it has been the main language was German and now kind of like transition to German and English. So maybe that's the way.

But yeah, apart from that, I don't think there was anything else.

[Speaker 2] (19:35 - 19:50)
So this was a situation that didn't make you feel very good. Can you provide any example of moments that made you feel particularly valued or supported during onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (19:51 - 21:14)
Yes, the presentations that they took, actually the supervisor presented me in front of like maybe 30 or 40 employees, employees in this case, developers. So I kind of felt honored to present myself in front of them,  even though, for example, they were from all over, like Austria, Germany and other places. And also I got a paid trip and also paid training for two or three days, for two days actually in Linz, where are the main headquarters.

So that felt really good as well. And yeah, also since we already started working, I think in the third week, if it's considered onboarding as well, started with a product and they were surprised. And I had like good, good feedback about my progression towards getting to know better their products. 

So I was getting that as a feedback as well. So that felt good as well.

[Speaker 2] (21:15 - 21:27)
Thank you. Do you think there were any missed opportunities or areas where you wish the organization had provided more support or recognition during onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (21:30 - 22:35)
I haven't felt that. So I don't think there are any particular missed opportunities that I can recall right now. It was pretty smooth actually.

Maybe because there are two products that are built in-house and I was doing the trainings for both products simultaneously. So that was a bit overwhelmed, which I later on required, for example, to get the first training, finish that and start with the second training.  And because the second training was a must in order to get through that first month test phase.

And yeah, that first month test phase can be really, really stressful in this case because if you just don't go through it, you are basically without a job. 

[Speaker 2] (22:37 - 22:43)
How did the company react to your suggestions or what you already mentioned now?

[Speaker 1] (22:45 - 23:24)
Yeah, I was allowed to do, for example, that most important training to do as the last one. So after this first one was finished, so yeah. And also got support during, because there was kind of like an exam when you had to go through after you finish the second training.

So they were supporting, not directly to the exam, but they were supporting me with some articles and things that would help my exam score.

[Speaker 2] (23:25 - 23:38)
And now that three months have passed by, how do you feel about your experience generally with pre and onboarding phase at your company?

[Speaker 1] (23:41 - 24:26)
I feel praised and also I feel like fortunate in this case because it was not that stressful or hard process  because as I can hear from the others, it can become more stressful and hard to cooperate with such like big players, in this case big corporates. And especially if you are just moving outside of EU into an EU state, in this case Austria, it can become a burden, really hard burden in order to get into the migration steps.

[Speaker 1] (24:27 - 24:38)
And yeah, maybe because the lawyers in the corporate just took the job of migration into their hands, I felt safe in this case maybe.  

[Speaker 2] (24:40 - 24:50)
Are there any suggestions or recommendations you would offer to improve the pre and onboarding experience for future candidates?

[Speaker 1] (24:52 - 26:04)
Yes, and I have stated to them as well. The first one that I mentioned, I will mention again here, is definitely relocation package. Also like getting to know the team before joining in, maybe through some calls, video calls, and also why not this training of the products  because the products were two products, main products, maybe can start a bit earlier because they were basically some like pre-recorded videos maybe that can start and so you know exactly what you're gonna do there, like what product is there.

And during onboarding, not specifically, just maybe better devices in this case, which they have stated now that they will change that, but nothing else.

[Speaker 2] (26:05 - 26:13)
In your opinion, what are the most important factors for building trust with new employees during these two phases?

[Speaker 1] (26:16 - 27:05)
Definitely open approach, open communication between both sides in this case, keeping it professional, however, in the meantime, like being friendly and open because a lot of emotions are mixed in this process for both sides  , but especially for the employee because I would say the biggest challenge is for him or her in this case. Also, just making sure in this case how he or she feels emotionally as well, which sometimes companies do lack that empathy on pre-boarding phase especially.

[Speaker 2] (27:07 - 27:19)
Thank you. The last question of our interview. What advice would you give to other candidates who are about to go through the pre- and onboarding process at a new organization?

[Speaker 1] (27:21 - 28:25)
Yeah, just make sure that you pre-define really well the requirements. Requirements also go through the codex of conduct in this case of your future employer. See the products that they are building.

In this case, if you are a developer, see the technologies that they are using. Ask about the benefits because usually they provide a lot of benefits which sometimes you don't even know. Don't be afraid to ask for more.

Be good at salary, in this case, because it's not a big deal to discuss about that. So, be honest on that part.

[Speaker 2] (28:28 - 28:44)
Nice. Meti, thank you very much. We came to the end of the interview and thank you for your very valuable insights in this topic.

I wish you great luck in your journey.

[Speaker 1] (28:45 - 28:48)
Thanks a lot. It was my pleasure. Thanks for the big empathy.







Interview 4 

[Speaker 2] (0:00 - 0:07)
So, hello and thank you very much for accepting the invitation to do this interview. Thank you for your time.

[Speaker 1] (0:08 - 0:10)
I thank you as well, it's my pleasure.

[Speaker 2] (0:11 - 0:47)
So, the study aims to reveal new employees' underlying feelings, expectations and fears when they are about to start a new position. With this study, I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers. As also already described, the interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre- and onboarding process.

It will take up to 30 minutes to complete and with your permission, I would like to audio record this interview. Is it okay for you?

[Speaker 1] (0:48 - 0:49)
Yes, it's okay, it's fine.

[Speaker 2] (0:50 - 1:18)
Thank you. The second thing I would like to mention, it is not anticipated that the interview will include feelings of distress. However, if this occurs, you can stop the interview, take a break or skip any questions that you do not want to answer.

Okay. Now, let's start. Can you tell me a bit about your background and about yourself?

[Speaker 1] (1:20 - 2:11)
Yes, I'm actually 40 years  old and I'm working in a telecommunications company at the moment here in Austria, in Vienna. I have studied in Manchester in the UK, a bachelor's study in business studies and a master's degree in finance. I have experience in Austria for five years and also abroad for four years. 

That includes various countries as well and various companies in various sectors. At the moment, I'm actually three months in this company  and so far it's a good experience for me.

[Speaker 2] (2:12 - 2:17)
And can you please tell me how old are you and what nationality you have?

[Speaker 1] (2:18 - 2:21)
Yes, I'm 40 years old and I'm coming from Greece .

[Speaker 2] (2:23 - 2:33)
And may I ask you questions regarding your type of character? So, what kind of characteristics define you as an employee at work?

[Speaker 1] (2:35 - 3:07)
I would say I'm eager to learn new things . So, there is something that attracts my interest would be learning new things, investigating things. But also, it is nice for me to see collaboration and expectations for the future.

So, to see that as an option to get further within a company. So, to achieve further goals within the company.

[Speaker 2] (3:08 - 3:34)
Okay. So, I would like to go back and recall the pre-boarding phase of yours. The pre-boarding phase is the phase from the job offer from the company up to the first day at work.

So, this is called the pre-boarding phase. How would you describe the pre-boarding experience leading up to your first day at the company?

[Speaker 1] (3:36 - 4:28)
Well, I have to say it was quite good, quite an easy experience. I didn't face any problems in terms of submitting all the necessary documents that was requested. But also, it was a lot of guidance at the beginning. 

Then it was like a small gap because there was some time until I got to the last week before I started the job. But yeah, I was contacted from my team leader regarding the last details. So, there was a lot of information on that point. 

And also, all the information was mentioned on the paper. So, I received an email with all the information after I got the offer. 

[Speaker 2] (4:28 - 4:35)
And how did you feel about the organization's communication and engagement efforts during this period?

[Speaker 1] (4:37 - 4:59)
I think it was good. I liked the fact that everything was written on a written form. So, everything was official and there were no mistakes and no misunderstanding from any side. 

So, yeah, I feel it was quite good. It went quite well.

[Speaker 2] (5:00 - 5:09)
And how did the frequency and quality of communication during pre-boarding influence your expectations for your role within the company?

[Speaker 1] (5:10 - 5:53)
Well, actually, it gave me the feeling that it was a stable company. It was well organized. So, the HR department felt that they were doing the job quite well. 

So, all the questions also that they had were answered on time. And yeah, there were no unclarities to the process. Also, during the interview as well, everything that was discussed during the interview that we had, also the first phase, the second phase.

And yeah, it was like a good experience to be also on the premise, but also on the first one online.

[Speaker 2] (5:54 - 6:06)
And can you share any particular impressions or feelings you had during this phase and with the communication with the HR department? How did you feel?

[Speaker 1] (6:08 - 6:45)
I felt quite good. It was a really friendly approach from the HR. And yeah, so far my experience was really good. 

Yes, in some cases, there were some questions during the interview that were quite a bit odd or quite strange, but it was from other sides that were trying to clarify this and just say, okay, yeah, we need this and this. Are you okay? Have you completely understood what is your role? 

What is expected from you? So, I would say that there were no misunderstandings from any point of view.

[Speaker 2] (6:47 - 6:54)
And were there any aspects of the organization's culture or values that surprised you or stood out to you during this time?

[Speaker 1] (6:57 - 7:27)
Yeah, actually, it was the feeling that the company was really international. Also, the people that were interviewing me were from different cultural backgrounds. But also, I could see also that the company and the other employees are not from Austria, so there's a lot of intercultural environment.

Something that was really, really good to see and that was making me feel easier to the whole process and more comfortable. 

[Speaker 2] (7:29 - 7:40)
Were there any specific interactions or communications during the pre-boarding process that influenced your level of trust in the organization as a prospective employer?

[Speaker 1] (7:42 - 7:54)
No, I didn't have any impression of something or I didn't notice something that would actually make me feel that something was not going well. The whole experience was, I would say, it was really good.

[Speaker 2] (7:55 - 8:03)
Yes, so you are saying that also the whole experience influenced you to create trust in the company.

[Speaker 1] (8:04 - 8:05)
Exactly, exactly, yes.

[Speaker 2] (8:07 - 8:16)
Can you recall any instances where you felt the organization went above and beyond to build trust with you during pre-boarding?

[Speaker 1] (8:18 - 8:28)
You mean that actually an action or behavior that actually helped me to gain the trust or to have a better impression for the company?

[Speaker 2] (8:30 - 8:40)
To create trust. What did the company do that you could create trust to the company?

[Speaker 1] (8:42 - 8:44)
Yeah, I would say...

[Speaker 2] (8:44 - 8:47)
In your opinion, always.

[Speaker 1] (8:49 - 9:59)
Yeah, I would say that it was the clear objectives that were set. So, each person that communicated with me actually was there for a particular reason and he was there to communicate his or her point of view. So, what was necessary for him to get as information.
So, I believe that actually helped me to understand that they know for what they are employing , what is the role that they are searching and they know exactly what will be expected from me. So, that was this kind of knowledge of what it is requested was able to be transferred to me and to actually create more trust to these people. Because I knew that I had to do this particular task or it's expected for me to do this.

So, yeah, I would say that actually helped me. The knowledge that they know exactly for what they're searching for.

[Speaker 2] (9:59 - 10:10)
Okay. Thank you. Were there any missed opportunities or areas where you felt the organization could have done more to instill trust during this phase?

[Speaker 1] (10:15 - 10:46)
I wouldn't say so because everything was really well organized. Everyone was on time. And yeah, the questions were quite good and to the point and all the communication was really friendly, good.

Everything was a good communication. Everything was in a friendly environment.  So, no, I think also the information regarding the position and the job was really, really good, was well communicated.

[Speaker 2] (10:47 - 11:19)
Okay. So, it was a nice experience, the pre-boarding for you. Now, let's jump to the onboarding phase.

Onboarding phase includes the first day at work up to the point where you feel fully potentially capable of doing your own tasks. Now, what were your initial feelings upon starting your first day at the company? And how did the onboarding process contribute to those emotions?

[Speaker 1] (11:21 - 13:33)
Well, the onboarding was a nice experience. There were quite a lot of people, a lot of trainees that were at the same moment when I joined. So, it was a strange environment, a strange feeling at the beginning because everyone was new and no one knew what and where he or she should go. 

So, for me, it was like the same. I was collected from two colleagues of mine from my department. So, they took me there to get my new ID and also to just start to show me the things around the building and where I should go, what should I do.

And also, at the first months were the people that they helped me to learn things and to investigate more things in detail. There were also other colleagues that helped me and assisted me during the process. So, there was no official training in terms of what was handed over to me through seminars or an educational overview of what the company does or what kind of products the company has. 

It was more job related. I found it was quite nice to know the things that I need to do. But from my point of view, everything was really fast and there was no time to adopt all this information, to process all this information. 

And also, it would be nice to see a little bit of the background of the company, what all products they do offer, in which areas they're covering, what kind of departments that do exist. So, it was a little bit more general to this point of view. 

[Speaker 2] (13:34 - 13:43)
And were there any surprises or unexpected elements that impacted your emotions during the first day?

[Speaker 1] (13:46 - 14:10)
No. First, I would say it was quite easy. There were not many expectations in terms of what I should do.

It was more about learning the new colleagues and and get things running with my PC and all the equipment to start getting to the whole process.

[Speaker 2] (14:11 - 14:20)
And how did the onboarding experience align with or differ from your expectations based on the pre-boarding communications?

[Speaker 1] (14:23 - 15:21)
Actually, it was not discussed or something like this about the onboarding or the process. It was, yeah, the only thing that was mentioned, I think, was that I will get the training on the job. So, from that point of view, it was okay.

It was good communicated. Yeah, actually, I did not ask on the pre-boarding a lot of questions in terms of how the knowledge will be transferred or what should I expect in terms of onboarding. It was mentioned that they have a lot of seminars, a lot of online options to learn something and to get the knowledge from various departments, but not something in particular to our department.

So, yeah, I did not ask for more information on this.

[Speaker 2] (15:22 - 15:30)
And how was the communication with your colleagues and how did this communication make you feel?

[Speaker 1] (15:31 - 16:02)
It was good. The experience was good, I have to say. The communication was on a friendly tone.  The things that we how we should start was quite good communicated and all those has been a lot of distractions on how to do things and to what should we check also for the next days and how things are running, how the process are running on a general level.

[Speaker 2] (16:04 - 16:12)
Can you describe any emotional highs or lows you experienced and how did they affect your trust in the organization?

[Speaker 1] (16:15 - 17:11)
Highs would be the fact that the tasks that were about to be allocated was quite new to me. Although I had the background and I could understand what was happening, there were a lot of new programs, a lot of software that was there to learn and things that were quite new to me. So, that is the high point.

I would say it was a bit more difficult because when you are on the first day, you are learning, you are starting from scratch.  The low points, I wouldn't say any low points because everything the first day was really smooth. It wasn't anything that attracted my attention in a bad way, I have to say.

[Speaker 2] (17:12 - 17:29)
Let's focus for a second on what you already mentioned. How did the leadership of the team and the colleagues influence and help you to overcome these new things that you were facing?

[Speaker 1] (17:32 - 18:24)
Well, that was quite good in terms of the leadership. Since there was a direct communication, we already had a good communication and a pre-boarding phase. So, yeah, everything ran quite smoothly. 

There has been quite good instructions to the other team members on how they could assist us and also there was a direct communication on what we should do, what to expect, where we should do it. There has also been a common lunch on that day, as far as I remember, to get to know each other better. I would say it was quite good. 

[Speaker 2] (18:25 - 18:34)
Can you provide examples of moments that made you feel particularly valued or supported during onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (18:39 - 19:19)
Just mentioning that it was the discussions that we had during the onboarding, so that the other people were about to know about us, to know about the people that came to the company and to learn more information about them and their interest to get to know me, to understand from my background where I'm coming from and to get more direct connection with me.

[Speaker 2] (19:20 - 19:38)
How did the organisation respond to any emotional changes or concerns you experienced during onboarding? When I say organisation, I mean the leadership, the colleagues, the HR department, everyone included.

[Speaker 1] (19:40 - 20:24)
There were actually quite everyone was there when I needed it. When I was meeting someone, I was popping on the corridors or to someone else I was meeting. They were open to me, they were saying if I need something , I'll just go directly to them and ask them and if they don't know, they will direct me to the particular person on where should I go to get this kind of information.

That was also from my team leader, it was quite good when the information was directly and really approachable. So that went quite well, I have to say. 

[Speaker 2] (20:26 - 20:32)
Were there any missed opportunities or areas where you wish the organisation had provided more support?

[Speaker 1] (20:36 - 21:16)
Yeah, I would say only with the training should be a bit more organized or more structured, let's say, in a way that we should know what to expect and what will be taken over from me , let's say, and to which particular phase. So it would be nice to see this on a schedule, let's say, for the first month. So the first week we'll be covering this, the second week we'll be covering this and also to get information on the job but also to have this written and to know what to expect.

[Speaker 2] (21:16 - 21:35)
And did you feel any bad emotions just because the training during the onboarding was not as you expected it to be? How was your experience? How did you feel about that?

[Speaker 1] (21:38 - 22:23)
Well, it was quite good but I felt in some points that I was losing the full picture because I needed to do things on my own in order to understand this and I had to go back and ask again for the same thing. So either I didn't have the full picture or let's say it was not a good communication, the knowledge was not transferred correctly.  So yeah, it was many times that I had to go back and ask but as I said, it was many processes at the same time.

So that made it a little bit more difficult to have the full picture in, let's say, the first months.

[Speaker 2] (22:24 - 22:50)
Okay, now we are coming almost to the end of the interview and some concluding questions I would like to make. First of them, how do you feel now about your experience with pre- and onboarding phase after our discussion today? Generally, how was the process?

[Speaker 1] (22:50 - 23:18)
I think the process was quite good. It was nice to remember and to recall all these things as well. So yeah, I would say it was a nice experience.

Actually, I wouldn't change something, only just the things that I was mentioning to the training and the organizational part. There could be some small improvements.

[Speaker 2] (23:20 - 23:27)
In your opinion, what are the most important factors for building trust with the new employees during the pre- and onboarding phase?

[Speaker 1] (23:31 - 24:35)
First of all, to be clear with them, what is expected from them, why it is expected from them. So when this is good communicating and clear communicated to get the feedback in terms of are you okay with this, are you happy with this.   And then that would be in the pre-boarding and the onboarding, just to keep the promises or if the company cannot keep the promises, just to explain why or to try to adapt, let's say, but also give the space to the employees to develop and also work with them to get to the same expectations.

So to build a trust is really, really important for me. And to know exactly what you already said, the pre-boarding achieves on their onboarding.

[Speaker 2] (24:36 - 24:46)
And the last question, what advice would you give to other candidates who are about to go through the pre- and onboarding process at a new company?

[Speaker 1] (24:47 - 25:49)
I would say to get as much as possible more information as they can and to have everything noted in a paper and ask them information that they need in the pre-boarding, what it is important for them. And also to have the really important points in terms of the contractual agreements or information that concerns salaries or working hours or in terms of the duties to have them in a written form. And then on the onboarding, just to try to reflect on what it was expected from them and to go back and ask, okay, it was mentioned that during the pre-boarding, I don't see this is happening or what it is expected for me to get also the information clear and also to get them to ask many questions as possible for the onboarding.

[Speaker 2] (25:51 - 26:04)
Petros, thank you very much for your valuable insights regarding the topic and your experience. We have come to the end of the interview and I wish you great luck on your journey with a new company.

[Speaker 1] (26:05 - 26:08)
Thank you. Thank you very much. It was a pleasure.

Thank you.







Interview 5 

[Speaker 2] (0:02 - 1:13)
Hello and thank you for the time to do this interview. 

[Speaker 1]  Thank you for inviting me. 

[Speaker 2] 
The study aims to reveal new employees' underlying feelings, expectations and fears when they are about to start a new position.

With this study, I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers. As already described to you, the interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre- and onboarding process. It will take up to 30 minutes to complete and, with your permission, I would like to audio record this interview.

Is it okay for you? 

[Speaker 1]   Yes, it's okay. Thank you.

[Speaker 2] 
So, the second thing I wanted to mention, it is not anticipated that the interview will include feelings of distress. However, if this occurs to you anytime, you can stop the interview, take a break or decide to skip questions. 

[Speaker 1]   Okay, yes, sure.

[Speaker 2] 
So, let's begin. Can you tell me a little bit about yourself and your background?

[Speaker 1] (1:14 - 1:57)
Yes, sure. I have been working in the finance industry for over four years. Lately, I've changed into the IT department. 

I used to work in finance most of the time . I finished my bachelor studies in banking and finance and then I decided to switch a little bit to go into more detail into math background and programming a little bit. And I studied quantitative finance in master's.

Now, it's been like three months that I've switched positions  and I'm working in an IT department. It's something in between data related to finance, but it's more like IT related.

[Speaker 2] (1:58 - 2:01)
And how are you enjoying the new company now?

[Speaker 1] (2:01 - 2:27)
Actually, now I'm enjoying a lot and I feel like I finally have come to doing something that I really like. So, this was like my aim from the beginning, of course, and I think it's everyone's, but it's also mine right now. So, I feel really good so far.

I've only been working for three months at this company and I feel like it's the right position for me so far.

[Speaker 2] (2:28 - 2:39)
Nice. So nice to hear that for you. Let me ask you a question regarding your character.

So, what defines you as a character at work, at the workplace?

[Speaker 1] (2:40 - 3:20)
Well, I think others see me from my experience and what others have told about me and also how I see it. I think I'm a very hardworking person. I have strong will and if I set my objectives and my goals for my career, I always try to achieve it. 

And from my experience, I have achieved so far what I've set myself. And so, I would describe it as hardworking with strong will and always open to new ideas. And always I see cooperation as a very strong trait in a work environment.

[Speaker 2] (3:21 - 3:46)
And if you can recall your pre-boarding experience. Pre-boarding is the stage from the moment that you receive the positive answer from the company till the first day at work. There has been some communication with the company during this period.

How would you describe this experience leading up to your first day at the company?

[Speaker 1] (3:48 - 5:16)
Well, with this new company that I'm currently also working, there have been very effective communication, I would say. Because they have called me, they emailed me and everything was also in verbal and also in writing. So, they were very effective from this part. 

And I really felt like it was a very serious company. And for me, I felt good and very, let's say, I felt like I could trust the people and the people that were talking to me and calling me. In this case, it was HR department, different colleagues now. 

And they were very helpful. In the pre-onboarding, they would call me because I had a need to apply for a new red-white-red card, a new visa. And so, they were very willing to help me with that. 

So, it was very helpful and always being there if I had any questions or anything. Also, of course, they helped me with some presentations and they sent me some more materials and information regarding the company , how everything works. So, I really liked that about the company in my onboarding, which I did not have it previously, to be honest.

So, I really liked it. It was different from my other experience.

[Speaker 2] (5:16 - 5:24)
Were there any specific communication channels or methods that you found particularly effective?

[Speaker 1] (5:26 - 5:57)
Actually, as I mentioned, I only spoke with them via phone and emails. But the emails were more precise and they used this mean by sending also the PowerPoint presentations and other materials that I needed. So, it was very helpful.

Of course, they first notified me via a phone call and then they would send me the materials. So, it was very effective. So, emails and phone calls were okay for my side.

[Speaker 2] (5:58 - 6:14)
Okay. So, you said that you also received some information regarding the company beforehand. Were there any aspects of the organization's culture or values that surprised you or stood out to you during this time?

[Speaker 1] (6:16 - 7:07)
Yes, of course. There were some related to the company from the way that how they do business. And of course, also the ecological part that they are very complying with the environmental needs and everything.

So, that part sparked my attention. And it was something that I really appreciated the companies. And I look at when they care about the environment. 

They have workshops and stuff for trainings and also getting together. Everything related to the environment part was really nice because that's the real estate company that I'm working at. And that part, of course, not all have it.

But sometimes it's mandatory. But in this case, they had some extra things that it was really interesting. And they caught my attention, let's say.

[Speaker 2] (7:08 - 7:19)
And were there any specific interactions or communications during pre-boarding that influenced your level of trust in the organization? What could you specifically mention here?

[Speaker 1] (7:20 - 8:21)
I can mention that they were very… I needed some documents from them for my residence permit. And they were willing.

They signed it and sent it to me immediately after one hour. Because they knew that I had an appointment and they were very willing to help me with that. I mean, I had another experience with my residence permit.

And it did not happen like this. So, they were very helpful. They were there for me.

And always, if you need anything, just call us. And we will help you with any document that you need. So, that really was like, let's say, a good start for me. 

They helped a lot in that situation. Because it's very stressful when you're international in a new country.  I mean, I've been living in Vienna for years.

But still, that part is very stressful when you have to apply for a new visa and residence permit. That part is really nice by their side. 

[Speaker 2] (8:22 - 8:33)
And other than the good things that you already mentioned, were there any missed opportunities or areas where you felt the organization could have done more to instill trust?

[Speaker 1] (8:35 - 9:23)
To be honest, no. They were very precise. I felt like nothing was missing, to be honest.

They did everything right. And they're a nice company. Very distinguished, let's say.

In my opinion, every step was really clear. So, I don't think they missed anything. This is how I feel right now when I go through all the stages that I had before starting my work.

So, they were very nice. And as I said, they sent stuff. And they showed me the hierarchy.

They showed me several materials that I would need for my job. And how the culture was in the environment, the culture in the team was. 

[Speaker 2] (9:23 - 9:45)
So, you mentioned a bit that this experience of yours is better than the other one that you had previously. If we compare these two experiences, what in particular did this company better that stood out than the other experience, which was not that good?

[Speaker 1] (9:46 - 10:51)
Well, the other company was not so, I would say, not so precise. And they were not very organized. That made me feel a little bit like stressed and not showing trust to the company. 

Because the first thing that you notice is how organized HR is. Because the first contact for the company is always HR. Also, the department you're working in.

But mine was with HR most of the time. And not being organized, being late with the replies, with the phone calls. That made me feel a little bit like I was very, let's say, not so.

I have my doubts for the company, for the previous one. Which I didn't have for the company I'm currently working. Because, as I said, they did every step right. 

I missed this from my previous experience. So, I can tell the difference now how it was with the previous company.

[Speaker 2] (10:51 - 11:19)
Okay. Now, pre-boarding is over. Then it comes the onboarding.

First day at work. If you could remember a bit your day before the first day at work. What were your initial feelings upon starting the first day at the company?

And how did the onboarding process then contribute to those emotions?

[Speaker 1] (11:21 - 12:13)
Of course, when you start a new job, of course, you're feeling a little bit anxious . You have an idea, of course, of what is expected of you. Because you already applied for the job and you got it.

And you know everything. But, of course, it's different from practical. And from how you describe it in your mind that the word is going to be.

So, I was feeling anxious. But, as I said, I already had an idea. I mean, not the actual how the work was going to be, but a general idea.

So, in the first day, I remember that I was feeling anxious. But then when I saw the environment and the team and everything, I don't know, but my stress level decreased. I was more relaxed.

But before, I was very stressed, to be honest.

[Speaker 2] (12:13 - 12:18)
What did you particularly do at the first day at the company?

[Speaker 1] (12:19 - 13:56)
They had organized everything. They put the things that I needed, like my laptop, the other parts, the screens and everything, the keyboard. They had prepared everything, my table. 

And at meetings with the IT guys first, they would try to give me... No, sorry. I had a meeting with HR first.

They would give me a short introduction, again, about the company and hierarchy, organigram and stuff like that, more detailed. And then I would meet with IT. They would give me all my passwords, everything that I needed for my work. 

The laptop, headphones, chargers and everything. So, they were showing me how the structure first works. And then I met the team.

Meeting the team was really nice because, as I said, I was introduced in my interviews, but I did not know them personally, so I was kind of networking between the departments a little bit. And that day, it went like that. Half of the day was trying to get to know everyone and trying to network with the colleagues. 

And after that, I was in a very short introduction of my tasks and how everything was structured in the department I'm currently working in. And so, this is how the first day went by. 

[Speaker 2] (13:57 - 14:01)
And how was the communication with the team? How did you feel about that?

[Speaker 1] (14:02 - 14:38)
They were very friendly and very flexible. I would say I also liked that because they were... Of course, also in my previous job, the colleagues were very friendly, but they were more flexible in how they interact and how they do the job and everything. 

So, I found them very friendly. And I, of course. They were very helpful also. 

They were giving me tips, which I usually did not have this in my previous experience. So, it was really nice. 

[Speaker 2] (14:39 - 14:46)
And were there any surprises or unexpected elements of the onboarding process that impacted your emotions during the first day?

[Speaker 1] (14:50 - 15:23)
Well, when I first started doing the interviews, I had an idea there was a change in the holding structure of the company. And I was aware of that because I was told during my interviews, but there was going to be some changes in the whole department because there was going to be a merger, let's say, between. And there was going to be some changes that I was not aware of, but still, it did not 100% affect my job.

So, I was still like... But it was a slight surprise, let's say.

[Speaker 2] (15:23 - 15:45)
Okay. And how did the onboarding experience align with or differ from your expectations during the pre-boarding phase? Sorry, again.

So, how did the onboarding experience align with or differ from your expectations based on the pre-boarding?

[Speaker 1] (15:48 - 16:52)
Slightly, just a little more. Because I was now in the onboarding, I was being told that I was going to take some more responsibilities regarding some other stuff related to this change that was in the shareholding structure. But that was actually the turn out to be for good because it's something that I always wanted to learn and get into more detail into that area.

So, even though I was afraid and somehow anxious about and stressed, I think it's for the best because it was something that I was going to ask in the future anyway. So, it was a mix of feelings of fear and also excitement because I was going to learn new things. And I am currently learning a lot of new things and that's what I actually like. 

Because I don't like very monotone jobs where you learn the job and then you never experience something new. And it's not the case in this scenario. And this is my new job.

But that's nice.

[Speaker 2] (16:52 - 17:06)
Yes. So, you are three months now at the new company. Can you describe any emotional highs or lows that you experienced during the onboarding journey?

And how did they affect your trust in the organization?

[Speaker 1] (17:08 - 18:33)
Well, the company, as I said, has this very nice strategy and the goals for the trainings. So, they have different platforms for trainings and depending on the department they have, it's specific. And they were very clear about this in the beginning. 

I have asked them that I like to learn by doing, but in the beginning that was not so much learning by doing more than just showing to me. So, I was hoping that it was going to be like I asked in the onboarding, in the pre-boarding, to get more into details and try to learn by doing rather than theoretically going through stuff. That was the only thing.

But also, trainings, I requested some more trainings and I didn't get it in the first week because there were some… Let's say someone was not the one that was supposed to help me with my training or had a vacation, went on holiday and then there was a clash. But other than that, everything was okay.

So, I got my trainings and I'm still doing some of them. So, it's really nice other than that.

[Speaker 2] (18:34 - 18:43)
How did the organization respond to any emotional challenges or concerns you experienced?

[Speaker 1] (18:46 - 20:10)
Well, actually, I talked to HR. They were very… They cared what I was going to say. 

So, it was nice because as I said in my previous… No, I didn't say. I mean, I'm thinking now that in my previous job, usually some people did not care how I felt. 

So, it was different in this one. I also had a particular moment that someone was fired in the company when it was my third day of work. And I was really scared.

Why was that happening? And they were really, really supportive because I was somehow stressed why that happened. I was not understanding. 

And they were like, we are sorry. This usually doesn't happen like this, but we had our motives and everything. So, they really care when you express some emotions.

And I think they're really supportive from that. And if you have something to say, they really listen and try to solve it for you if they can, of course, because there are some things you cannot do anything about it. But for what they have in their hands to do, they actually did it for me and listened. 

They've been very helpful and surprised. They're really nice. I have the best…

Really, at this point and this stage in my career, I would say that this is the best company that I've worked so far.

[Speaker 2] (20:10 - 20:20)
And can you provide examples of moments that made you feel particularly valued and supported during the onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (20:23 - 21:18)
Yeah, I was valued. For example, it depends on… Do you mean…

I did some tasks, because as I said, I asked for some tasks in the beginning in order for me to get into more detail and try to learn how to do stuff, on the job, on this new job. And my boss was really… The team leader was really, really amazed by the way that I was getting to…

I was learning too fast. So, I really felt appreciated because it was like… It's only your third day and you're doing stuff.

So, that really got me… I felt appreciated and I felt good. It got me motivated to even go on with other tasks. 

So, that was a good thing, I remember, from my start.

[Speaker 2] (21:18 - 21:30)
Okay. And despite the good things, were there any missed opportunities or areas also in the onboarding phase that you wish the organization could have done better?

[Speaker 1] (21:32 - 23:04)
Of course, there are always. It depends on… For example, I have also another colleague that is helping me and I would have wished that I would have gotten into more details in both.

I mean, when you have a team, you're supposed to know things in your department, how they work. So, I was not very… In certain areas, I cannot say…

They were really good in explaining the organizational structure and everything. But in my department, I would have liked to get into more detail on what one is doing so that the other knows as well. It's like communication between the team. 

Regarding… Not communication, but communication regarding… I mean, in general.

It was just for some tasks and for some stuff. But I think that was because I'm new and maybe they thought that I would not understand certain things. But now, I can say that it's somehow fixed so far.

I've been included more in what my other colleagues are doing in order for me to… In case one is missing or is absent, we could take over the other part. So, I don't want to feel like I don't know this thing and not take it over.

It's just a miscommunication, like a slight miscommunication between team members.

[Speaker 2] (23:05 - 23:26)
So, after our discussion today regarding the pre- and onboarding, how do you feel about your experience in general? Do you want me to read it? No, I just want just a general impression of the pre- and onboarding phase.

[Speaker 1] (23:28 - 24:17)
Yeah, in general, I would say that it was good because, as I mentioned, my previous one was not as perfect as I would expect. And that's why, when compared to the others, it looks very good in my eyes. But, of course, there are always things that need to be improved.

And things that I would have liked to have been different. But, in general, I would say it was a really nice onboarding, pre-boarding, and helpful. And it made me feel very…

I was being part of the team, like for real, getting things done and being involved. That's very important from the first days of my work. In general, it was good. 

[Speaker 2] (24:19 - 24:27)
And in your opinion, what are the most important factors for building trust with the new employees during the pre- and onboarding phases?

[Speaker 1] (24:32 - 25:35)
I think it depends, but in my opinion, always. When you say certain things and you present certain things in the pre-boarding period, and the onboarding period matching those two, what you say and what you really do, it's very important for me to build trust on anyone, not just the company. If they say something different in my pre-onboarding and it turns out to be different, usually that would lose my trust. 

I would be willing also to not go any further with the contract of work. But usually in this case, for me it was like they would say something and they would really do that. They did it how they said they would do it.

I don't know if you have any other suggestions or questions. I can also specify more.

[Speaker 2] (25:35 - 25:53)
No, I think it is enough. One last question and we are coming to the end of the show. What advice would you give to other candidates who are about to go through the same stages, the pre- and onboarding process at a new company?

[Speaker 1] (25:55 - 27:30)
I would say that, of course, try to be as attentive as possible and try to communicate clearly your feelings, your emotions, whatever you have that you want to say to the company before starting the job or whatever questions that you have or that you want to ask in advance. It is very important to communicate before starting the job.  I have asked when I needed something to be explained regarding the position and what I was going to do in more detail.

I would say that it would be nice if they asked the questions, the right questions and what they want to actually know. They are not surprised when they go there in the first day of work and first week and so on and they would be reflecting something else from what we had pictured in our minds. In my opinion, communicate with the company, express everything and, of course, cooperation is really important.

Try to be open and as much as let's say open-minded and cooperative as possible. That would be an advice for them.

[Speaker 2] (27:31 - 27:40)
We came to the end of the interview. Thank you very much for your valuable insights and I wish you great luck in your new journey.

[Speaker 1] (27:42 - 27:48)
Thank you very much also for having me. Good luck to you as well. Thank you.






Interview 6 

[Speaker 2] (0:03 - 1:12)
Hello, and thank you very much for accepting the invitation to do this interview. Thank you for the time. 

[Speaker 1] You're welcome.

So, the study aims to reveal new employees' underlying feelings, expectations and fears when they are about to start a new position. With this study, I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers. The interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre- and onboarding process.

It will take up to 30 minutes to complete. And with your permission, I would like to record the interview. Is it okay for you if I do so?

[Speaker 1] It's okay. 

[Speaker 2]  
Okay, thank you. Secondly, it is not anticipated that the interview will induce feelings of distress.

However, if this occurs, you can stop the interview, take a break or skip any questions that you do not want to answer. Okay. Okay.

So, can you please tell me a little bit about yourself and your background?

[Speaker 1] (1:16 - 1:45)
I'm 33 years old  and I studied in Vienna. I studied International Business Administration, bilingual program. I've done some accounting and some business administration classes during my study. 

And now I'm working at 3 in Austria.

[Speaker 2] (1:46 - 1:50)
How many years of experience do you have, if I may ask?

[Speaker 1] (1:51 - 1:52)
Sorry, what experience?

[Speaker 2] (1:53 - 1:55)
Professional experience.

[Speaker 1] (1:55 - 2:03)
Professional experience. Actually, this is my very first corporate job.

[Speaker 2] (2:04 - 2:04)
Okay.

[Speaker 1] (2:04 - 2:26)
Before I've done some jobs, but it wasn't really corporate related jobs. If it's considered as professional, I mean, it was quite professional, but not corporate related. So, I don't know if it's relevant or...

[Speaker 2] (2:26 - 2:26)
It is okay.

[Speaker 1] (2:27 - 2:28)
It's okay.

[Speaker 1] (2:39 - 2:48)
Yeah. I mean, I don't know. Yeah, my previous job, it was not really corporate related job.

So, I don't know if it's relevant for the interview.

[Speaker 2] (2:48 - 2:53)
I understand. Okay.

Where are you from, if I may ask?

[Speaker 1] (2:53 - 3:00)
Okay. I'm originally from Indonesia . I moved to Austria 12 years ago.

[Speaker 2] (3:03 - 3:14)
Okay. And... Can I ask you some questions regarding your character?

What defines you? What kind of personality traits you offer at your workplace?

[Speaker 1] (3:17 - 3:57)
I would say I'm a quick learner, I guess. That is the expression that I have. I'm also an on-time person, punctual.
And... I'm also a responsible person, I would say. 
I would also say that I'm kind of like... What can I say? I'm eager to develop. 

Okay.

[Speaker 2] (3:57 - 3:58)
Ambitious.

[Speaker 1] (3:58 - 4:06)
Ambitious, exactly. In a way. And, yeah, I think that's what I can think of.

[Speaker 2] (4:07 - 4:20)
Okay. For how long have you been in the new position at the new company?

[Speaker 1] (4:22 - 4:26)
In the new position? I've been working for about three months. 

[Speaker 2] (4:27 - 4:27)
Okay.

[Speaker 1] (4:27 - 4:28)
Already, yeah.

[Speaker 2] (4:29 - 4:39)
Okay. So... How would you describe the pre-boarding experience leading up to your first day at the company?

Can you recall it?

[Speaker 1] (4:40 - 5:51)
Yes. For information, I got a job through an outsourcing agent. So I applied the job through this third party.

So basically, all the paperwork things, my outsourcing agent did it. And the very first contact that I had with the company, it was my interview. And...

So before the interview, my outsourcing agent informed me that there was a company that is interested in me. And then I said, yes, okay. And then I did the interview.

And then I... I think it was after my outsourcing agent told me, until the interview, it took me for about a week or so. And then I had the interview.

And after the interview, I think it was quite successful. And then I don't know how it was...

[Speaker 2] (5:53 - 5:56)
Let's focus a bit after the interview. 

[Speaker 1] (5:57 - 7:25)
This is what I was about to say. After the interview, I got informed again by my outsourcing agent, hey, the company is going to take you. And then I said, okay, yes.

And then I got an email from the company, not through the outsourcing agent anymore. And I got an email that I have to go. I don't know.

The process took also more or less one week or so , if I'm not mistaken. It's about around that. And then I got an email.

And then like, okay. And then I came to the office pretty much to meet my new team leader.  And then we did all this...

This... What can I say? Bureaucracy things.

Like I get the new equipment and stuff. And yeah. And then after that, it wasn't quite my very first day because he only showed me around, like where is what and what is what. 

Yeah. Basically, it was like some kind of like go through everything. If I have like the access for anything or everything that I need for the work, like all the softwares or programs that I need for the work. 

And it was basically my very first day.

[Speaker 2] (7:27 - 8:21)
Okay. But before moving at the very first day, let's focus a bit on this gap, this one week time you had where the company got in touch with you. You said that the other...

How is it called? The company that introduced you to the outsourcing agency. Right?

So let's focus on the part where the outsourcing agency no longer is part of the conversation. Just the company you're working at. You said there was a time gap of one week before you initially started working.

How did you feel about the organization's communication and engagement efforts during this period?

[Speaker 1] (8:23 - 9:27)
I mean, I would say there was... In terms of effort, it wasn't that much, but it was quite clear. I mean, it was only through email. 

And from what I remember, it was only one or two emails. I think the very first email, my team leader said, like, welcome to the company and blah, blah, blah. Like some, I wouldn't say small talk, but like welcoming paragraph or whatever you say.

Whatever you call it. And then the second email, he sent me the invitation to come to the office to get the equipment. And then he's going to show me around and then to get everything done with the access and stuff.

And yeah, so basically during this one week gap, like time gap, basically we didn't do much. I only got like two emails, no phone calls, only emails. Okay. 

That's it. That was it actually.

[Speaker 2] (9:28 - 9:33)
Can you share any impressions or feelings that you had during the pre-boarding?

[Speaker 1] (9:37 - 10:06)
Impression, I would say it was all right. I mean, to be honest, I couldn't, I mean, of course, like if it's like more personal, like I wouldn't say more personal, but it was quite all right. Because like it was still like during this lockdown time.

So I don't know how it should have been done better. But like, as far as I remember, it was actually quite nicely done.

[Speaker 2] (10:12 - 10:18)
And what specific information or messages resonated with you during the pre-boarding phase?

[Speaker 1] (10:20 - 10:21)
Sorry, what message?

[Speaker 2] (10:22 - 10:43)
What specific information or messages resonated with you during the pre-boarding phase? Was there anything particularly interesting to you? Something that stood out or you remember and you found very interesting?

[Speaker 1] (10:46 - 11:03)
To be honest, not really, actually. To be honest, it was just like, no, actually, to be honest, not really. There was nothing like really caught my attention, to be honest.

[Speaker 2] (11:03 - 11:13)
But were there any specific interactions or communications that influenced your level of trust in the company as a prospective employer?

[Speaker 1] (11:20 - 12:10)
Well, to be honest, yes, because of during the time I convinced that they wanted me to be part of their company. So, of course, there's like my first impression when they were like invited me directly to the company, like in person to meet my team leader. So my first impression was like, yeah, OK, then they really want me  because like, as I said before, this time we kept, it was nothing.

And then like during this time we kept, OK, we want to take you and stuff. So I got this impression that they appreciate me and they want me to be there, to be part of their team. That's actually my impression. 

[Speaker 2] (12:10 - 12:30)
OK, but in your opinion, were there any missed opportunities or areas where you felt that the company could have done more to instill trust during the pre-boarding? Do you have any suggestions or something that you found could be improved?

[Speaker 1] (12:35 - 14:12)
To be honest, not really, because as I said, I got the interview and everything during Corona time, during this pandemic time. So maybe my impression would have been different if I would have gone there in person directly for the interview or something. Maybe I could say more, but since I did it all online and then after the online interview, I went there, so basically I couldn't say much, to be honest.

Because when I came there for the first time on my first day, you can say so, I didn't have any impression, to be honest. But if it would have been different, if it would have been normal time, no Corona lockdown, I would have had more impressions or things that I can express or that I can mention earlier. Because I was there already and I could see myself directly, I could say, OK, maybe this thing could be different, maybe this thing could be improved or stuff like that.

But since I wasn't there personally for the interview, that's why I couldn't say if there's things that can be improved for now.

[Speaker 2] (14:15 - 14:53)
OK, so the pre-boarding phase took place during the Corona times, but you are at the new department within three months now, right? Yeah. OK, so let's move on to the onboarding.

So the first day you joined the new department, what were your initial feelings upon starting the first day and how did the onboarding process contribute to those emotions? Can you remember how was this experience for you the first day?

[Speaker 1] (14:54 - 15:44)
Well, before this department, I was in another department, so when they moved me to another department, frankly speaking, it wasn't a great feeling, to be honest, because I've been in the last department for about a year and then I had to move to another department, which is quite, how can I say diplomatically? OK, it was a bit annoying, frankly speaking, because then I had to start over again, I had to learn new things from the beginning again and stuff, so my impression, it wasn't that good, but it wasn't that bad either, so it was quite middle, I'd say. 

[Speaker 2] (15:47 - 16:07)
But the annoying part of changing the department, yes, that is understandable, but let's focus on the first day at the new department. What happened, how was the communication and how did you feel during the first day?

[Speaker 1] (16:07 - 16:55)
The first day, well, I've done some tasks from this department before, but only one task and I already could do it quite well, I'd say, but then I was given more tasks in this department and my first impression, I would say, it was quite demanding from the side of my team leader, because it was like too much information at once,  I even already mentioned it to him that it's kind of a lot, everything came at once and it was quite demanding in a way that, in a sense that quite stressful, in my opinion. 

[Speaker 2] (16:55 - 16:56)
OK.

[Speaker 1] (16:57 - 17:13)
Well, of course, with the help from my colleagues, I could do it in the end, but my impression, it was quite demanding in a sense of, you know, it's kind of stressful, I would say.

[Speaker 2] (17:14 - 17:45)
OK. Can you describe any emotional highs or lows you experienced during your onboarding journey? How did this affect your trust in the company?

Oh, good question, actually. There are always bad days, good days at work, but especially during this period. 

Is something that you still remember that made you feel good, very good or bad, very bad?

[Speaker 1] (17:47 - 20:34)
As I said, I have done some tasks at this department before, so let's say I wasn't completely lost, so I knew something already. So for this task, I was totally fine. So it was probably my high.

And then my, I wouldn't say proud moment, but it was quite like the positive thing because I've done it before, so it wasn't that difficult or it wasn't so stressful or whatever. But with the new task, it was quite stressful because then I had to learn it from the beginning. And it was because this department is quite tricky.

There are so many things that you have to put attention, more attention to it. You have to focus on it. There's small things that cannot be missed.

You have to check many things and stuff. And then when the things go south, of course, I'm feeling kind of annoyed or down or whatever. As I said, of course, my colleagues always help me and stuff.

But when the things went south, then it was a pretty bad feeling, I would say. Yeah, and about the trust. The thing that probably affected the trust quite badly for me, it was the amount of workload, actually. 

Because in the beginning, with all these things, the new things, of course, I made many mistakes and stuff. And then sometimes I had to stay two hours longer than I should have to. Then it was quite a bit annoying, actually.

Then my trust was a bit shaky, actually, a little bit. Because all of these many things, I understand why I had to stay longer. Because as I say, that's actually the result of so much information at once. 

That probably made me, I don't know why, I wouldn't say angry, but I would say...

[Speaker 2] (20:34 - 20:35)
Overwhelmed.

[Speaker 1] (20:36 - 20:43)
Yeah, overwhelmed, exactly. That's probably the thing that made the trust a little bit shaky.

[Speaker 2] (20:43 - 20:49)
Yeah, that's probably it.

[Speaker 1] (21:03 - 21:57)
Good question. I think, yeah, I mean, they're quite helpful. So their responses are actually pretty good.

If they have questions and stuff, they're willing to help me to solve the problems and stuff. And the team leader also.  But sometimes when the things get too much, it's really getting to your nerves and stuff.

It's probably not from the colleagues, but from the things that don't go smoothly. That's probably the thing that has negative impact in my performance. But the colleagues and the team leader, they're actually quite helpful, I would say. 

[Speaker 2] (22:03 - 22:12)
You would offer to improve the pre- and onboarding experience for future candidates. What would you suggest?

[Speaker 1] (22:19 - 22:30)
What would I suggest? Good question, actually. Probably...

[Speaker 2] (22:31 - 22:46)
Let me do the question a bit different. In your opinion, what are the most important factors for building trust with new employees? Based always on your experience.

[Speaker 1] (22:47 - 22:51)
Based on my new experience? To build trust.

[Speaker 2] (22:52 - 23:05)
How could the company build trust with you during these two stages? To make you feel good, to make you feel comfortable. What should the company do, in your opinion?

[Speaker 1] (23:14 - 24:33)
I cannot talk about this company. But in general, probably they have to... I wouldn't say recap, but to recalculate the workload that an employee has. 

Because sometimes it's quite too much and someone can get very overwhelmed. So probably a better calculation for the workload, actually . Because sometimes...

For example, the team leader probably says that this task can be done within an hour or so. But in reality, it takes longer. It could take up to two hours or whatever.

So basically, maybe proper calculation, I would say. For the workload. For the task, you know what I mean?

I think that's the only thing I can think of, actually.

[Speaker 2] (24:36 - 24:46)
Okay, well. We came to the end of the interview. So thank you very much for your valuable insights.

I wish you great luck.

[Speaker 1] (24:47 - 24:48)
Thank you. You too.

[Speaker 2] (24:50 - 24:51)
Thank you. Bye.

[Speaker 1] (24:52 - 24:52)
Bye.




Interview 7 

[Speaker 2] (0:01 - 0:08)
Hello, hi and thank you very much for accepting the invitation to conduct this interview.

[Speaker 1] (0:10 - 0:12)
Thank you, it's my pleasure.

[Speaker 2] (0:13 - 1:31)
Thank you. So a short description before we start. The study aims to reveal new employees underlying feelings, expectations and fears when they are about to start a new position.

With this study I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers. The interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre and onboarding process and it will take up to 30 minutes to complete. With your permission I would like to audio record the interview and the responses of the questions.

Is it okay for you if I do so? Yes, sure. Thank you.

Another thing I would like to highlight, it is not anticipated that the interview will include feelings of distress. However, if this occurs to you, you can stop the interview, take a break or skip any questions that you do not want to answer. Okay, now let's begin and I would like to know a bit about you yourself and your background.

[Speaker 1] (1:32 - 2:13)
Yes, so I studied business informatics back home in Albania. After that I worked for one year in the area of quality assurance software testing  and then I moved to Austria to study a in project management. At the same time, after a while, after being incorporated and being part of the life here, I started looking for something else for a job and now I'm working again in the same area  
for almost five to six months .

[Speaker 2] (2:13 - 2:35)
Mm-hmm. What nationality do you have, you said? 

Yes, I come from Albania. 

Okay. May I ask you what kind of characteristics define you as an employee at work or better say what kind of personality traits you offer at your workplace?

[Speaker 1] (2:36 - 3:16)
I like to describe myself as a very inclusive person, so I really like to include other people in the team, also very communicative and pretty like a team player, wanting to always be part of not only decision making but also in other social areas of teamwork, not just actually work but also the social part of working. 

[Speaker 2] (3:18 - 3:27)
Coming to the pre-boarding phase, how would you describe this experience leading up to your first day at the company?

[Speaker 1] (3:30 - 4:55)
My pre-boarding experience was quite good. I was in communication with the company and people from human resources all the time. They would explain to me how things were and give me the necessary information of my position and also about the company. 

I could check the website, social media, because they already gave me this information. I remember before actually starting the on-boarding phase, they had set up an on-boarding buddy for me and he sent me an email with all the explanations about the job, about the project, about what I needed to enhance the skills before actually joining this project  and some other, as far as I remember, like a brochure where I could read some of the activities and how the work life was there in my company, which was pretty good. That made me very prepared to know what is expected of me pretty much and to have a clue where I'm working and how does this live working life function in the company.

[Speaker 2] (4:56 - 5:04)
Were there any specific communication channels or methods that you found particularly effective or inadequate?

[Speaker 1] (5:07 - 5:40)
Inadequate? No, because I think it was very professional. We generally were in contact with emails during this stage, nothing else.

No teams or any other communication tool, but I think it's very professional and everything is documented, so they would just communicate with my personal email until I would get the email from the company. 

[Speaker 2] (5:41 - 5:50)
How did the frequency of communication during pre-boarding influence your expectations for your role and the company generally?

[Speaker 1] (5:53 - 6:51)
Comparing to previous experiences, it was a higher frequency of communication . It was not that frequent, so we would discuss about some mainly procurement stuff and legal stuff as well as signing the contract and everything. After that, I had to wait for a while, so that made me a bit anxious, but when I received the email from my onboarding buddy and I started being in contact with him, the communication was, let's say, at least once per week and that was a pretty good experience comparing to experiences and frequency of communication with the company that I worked before. 

[Speaker 2] (6:52 - 7:02)
Can you share any impressions or feelings you had during this period regarding the organization's culture, values or expectations?

[Speaker 1] (7:05 - 8:28)
Yes, I think at that time I did not have much any idea how things worked and I was a bit anxious how things worked there and what is expected of me  and how is it actually to touch the work comparing to my previous experiences, but I think communication that I had and the dissemination from the company was quite good, so I could enter the social media or the website and check how is working life for this company, what activities they do, is there any growth opportunity, learning opportunities as well, and I had everything in this website and I could figure out a bit more what was going on and how the company culture is, but it's always you could check that on social media or you could check that on the website, but you cannot be sure and that's why you always have these questions, what if it's not like that, what if it's just marketing, so I always was anxious and a bit scared, let's say, before, but that changed afterwards.

[Speaker 2] (8:29 - 8:37)
And were there any aspects of the organization's culture or values that surprised you or stood out to you during this time?

[Speaker 1] (8:40 - 9:38)
Yes, I would say they were pretty supportive for me and they would always respond any questions that I have and since I was also non-EU national , I had some issues and regarding the legal stuff with the permission to work and that was a bit tricky, but the company managed it pretty well. Actually, there was an interesting story with that because I had to delay my onboarding for one month because of that, but I was pretty calm because they would always take over, send me an email of what's going on and apply again and inform me of everything, which made this non-pleasant experience better and I would be reassured that I would get the job and I would get onboarding on time. 

[Speaker 2] (9:40 - 9:57)
Were there any specific interactions or communications that actually influenced your level of trust in the organization as a prospective employer? Can you mention something in particular about that?

[Speaker 1] (9:57 - 11:12)
Yes, I have something to mention about that. Before me starting the work in this company, I was in frequent communication via email with the HR person, with the person that actually did the interviews with me and followed up on everything  and he invited me to go to the office, to the premises and I could actually see and touch a little bit where the place was and what it looked like, to meet some people there and let them know that I would be the new employee , I would join soonish and that really, really helped because I felt the first day after I joined, I felt like I've been in this place before, I pretty much know how the office looks like, where is everything pretty much and this introduction was very needed and necessary and I think it was a very good example that this pre-onboarding was really good on their side. 

[Speaker 2] (11:13 - 11:22)
Can you recall any instances where you felt that the organization went above and beyond to build trust with you?

[Speaker 1] (11:25 - 12:58)
The only thing that I could remember because of that was the incident with the legal issues and they would be all the time in communication with me to make me calm and reassured that everything is all right and we can handle this and we are taking over this process  so you just need to wait and we are already communicating with the third party as it was necessary which really, really helped me to build trust and to really be sure that everything is going to be okay and I will be joining the organization and it's not going to be so difficult as it seemed at that time. So I think this is a really good example of trust, of building trust because at that time as a new joiner you could think, yeah now that this happened probably they will tell me no, it's impossible, we cannot onboard you, I'm sorry or something like that and I think since the very moment I felt a strong confidence that it's a company that keeps the word and they're doing what they're saying that they are going to do and that was a really good instance let's say to give me the confidence that yeah I'm joining a really good culture with responsible people and people who are willing to help. 

[Speaker 2] (12:59 - 13:22)
Yes that makes sense. One other question, maybe you said all this positive stuff regarding the company, were there any missed opportunities actually or areas where you felt that organization could have done more to instill trust during this phase?

[Speaker 1] (13:25 - 15:16)
Yeah, maybe just communicate a bit more  or 

In what sense communicate a bit more?

 Because sometimes during this trouble that I explained, the situation, I would need to write to them first what is going on and then they would instantly reply but I would really like for them to just tell me beforehand without needing to write them before that yeah this is the process, we're still waiting, don't worry and stuff like that but that was let's say something that it was like a missed opportunity but I still think it was okay because I mean I understand there are a lot of people to be onboarded and it could not be a perfect onboarding process for them but it's important that in the end they would just reply to my emails to make me feel sure that things are going okay and we're going on the right direction together  but definitely there is problems. It's different if you're there and something happens and you can communicate with your colleagues and it's different if you don't know anybody except for some people you did the interview with and you're just writing emails with them and that could be improved I guess maybe also from their side to have some I don't know Zoom interviews or something like that to stay in line but communicating better than just writing an email.

[Speaker 2] (15:17 - 15:38)
Okay and moving on now to the onboarding phase. First day at the company, what were your initial feelings upon starting your first day at the company and how did the onboarding process contribute to those emotions?

[Speaker 1] (15:43 - 17:31)
I remember it being very awkward because I'm also working in a industry that there are many men  but something that really helped was I could reach out by phone to my onboarding buddy because he already gave me his contact beforehand and then I joined and everybody was super friendly . 
We had some technicalities with the tools that I needed to use  and everything and I was introduced to everybody and they were super open to help me with anything and for any questions which really really helped  but 
in itself the first day I remember it was a bit strange to me and I felt like what am I doing here? Do I really belong here? 

Did I do right? And also we had this but this is something I need to mention we have this tradition that every week we have a meeting with the whole company online on Monday and during this time they have this tradition that everybody who is a new joiner they will introduce themselves and I didn't know that beforehand and it was my first day and it was Monday and they just called my name to introduce themselves that was a bit unprepared and a bit scared like I was not prepared of that  but rather than that it was pretty pretty okay and I got all the help and support that I needed.

[Speaker 2] (17:32 - 17:41)
And how did your onboarding experience align with or differ from your expectations based on the pre-boarding communications?

[Speaker 1] (17:45 - 19:51)
I think it was much better than I expected because my pre-boarding as I said it was stressful maybe not necessarily because of lack of communication or because it was a responsibility from people working in human resources but because the situation was like that and I was really thinking that yeah maybe also during onboarding there will happen something and I will not be supported enough but then it was much easier having an onboarding buddy  I need to mention that that he's also a person that he works in the same area as you do and ideally works in the same project and helps you to do all to deliver all the tasks to ask questions also administrative questions and things like that but later also some other people from people and culture team approached me and they invited me to go for a short break together and to discuss all together  and I remember after let's say one month the company had a meeting which never had happened before in the history of this organization only for new joiners which was called global takeoff something like that and we would get to know also people from other teams living in other cities and in other countries  but that joined the organizations within the last three months and that really really it was a really nice event because we could network and meet people  who were at the same stage and going through the same problems issues and being onboarded so yeah I really like the onboarding more than

[Speaker 2] (19:51 - 20:10)
pre-boarding myself and were there any challenges or difficulties you encountered during onboarding that impacted your emotions or trust in the company yeah I think it was mainly because

[Speaker 1] (20:10 - 21:21)
I had a strong imposter all the time so during the first three months of joining the organization despite onboarding being okay as a process in itself I was all the time questioning am I the right team  what am I doing here questions like that which really made me doubt a lot of things but I noticed that a lot of new joiners in the organization had the same questions at the beginning because there is a lot of things you need to learn  and it was a bit of I think also the cultural differences and the language barrier  because when it comes to inclusion sometimes you needed to try harder to understand people speaking in German and well my main language was English but that was I remember in the first three months and I always had this feeling so they could have done better they should be better at inclusion but that changed because

[Speaker 2] (21:21 - 21:36)
of these events and also with time 

okay I'm interested to know how did the organization the company respond to these emotional challenges or any concerns you experienced?

[Speaker 1] (21:36 - 23:42)
during this time I think you could open up with it just with people in culture team and they were pretty understanding  but something that I think the organization did right was despite me working in a team with only men I could socialize with other teams that were also more diverse and more people were more included  also coming from other countries and that I thought that they were not there but actually there were people there and some of them were going through the same things and they had the same questions the same experiences and you could talk to them and let them know that yeah I'm going through this and that really really helped  but also socializing events really helped we had plenty of them also this event that was only for women joiners because then that's the moment when you feel really included in the organization that you feel heard  and also we have of course this one-on-ones meetings with manager with project leaders where we could express different concerns and problems so that is how they tackled problems  with I don't know maybe new joiners not feeling included and issues regarding the onboarding but I think it was not just a work from the people development team or human resources but it was the entire organization and sometimes even different people's initiatives that were there before and going through the same phase and experiencing onboarding themselves

[Speaker 2] (23:46 - 23:57)
and can you tell me were there any missed opportunities or areas where you wish the organization had provided more support or recognition during the onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (24:01 - 26:18)
I think maybe yes in regards more to the project I was working on because the project I'm going was for a long time ongoing and I joined there recently so I needed to catch up with everything happening in the last four years so I think I should have had a better experience regarding this because there were plenty of things that were not same to them but somehow not taken into consideration but they would have a complete different impact on my performance on the way I felt in the team and the fact that I would feel myself more included and more like giving an added value to the project so I think with regards to that it's very important for them to have given me more of a background of what's going  on but I also think that it's how you manage projects generally because the onboarding process the administrative part in itself was quite good and maybe some other issue that I tackled is people themselves needed to be more inclusive  not only people from your team but also from other teams to be a bit more let's say you are the new joined the new joiner hey nice to meet you like to take the initiative to introduce themselves to me which rarely happened  not with a lot of people and I think this is something that I would rather improve in the organization culture it's also dependent on different people but if a training is given for this or some initiative is taken to simply talk to your joiners that would be much better.

[Speaker 2] (26:21 - 26:37)
In your opinion now that you faced the pre and onboarding stages what are the most important factors for building trust with new employees during these two stages in your opinion always?

[Speaker 1] (26:39 - 28:23)
In my opinion first of all is communication clear constant and honest communication   so discussing even the tough topics with honesty and   
being able to talk about things that are not comfortable sometimes and also giving people reassurance that anything that you are going to say it's not going to impact your performance   necessarily we're not going to fire you or something like that but it's important for us maybe also the culture of giving feedback  which basically my company has because after the onboarding phase they also send me some survey to ask feedback on improvements and everything and that really creates the idea of trust and the idea that no I'm not being judged it's not that somebody's blaming me for something not working well but everything needs improvement and it's not only me who needs to get improved in the area that it's working so I think these two are very important communication honest communication and also providing feedback or being able to provide feedback without the fear of the fact that you are the new joiner or you in the company.

[Speaker 2] (28:24 - 28:39)
And the last question what advice would you give to another candidate who is about to go through these two stages at the new company based on your experience?

[Speaker 1] (28:41 - 29:36)
Based on my experience I think the best advice is it always gets better the beginnings are always difficult on anything that you do so don't expect too much in the beginning  because I also had myself like I had so many expectations and especially with myself I needed to perform and do everything but that's a process in itself and nobody's expecting of you to perform in the first months  they're just expecting of you to get used to everything to get to know everything to start understanding stuff and not necessarily judging you on what you're doing right or what you're doing wrong and also always ask questions because questions are very important.

[Speaker 2] (29:38 - 29:51)
Arlie thank you very much for your valuable insights to this interview and I wish you great luck in your journey and success in every step that you will reach.

[Speaker 1] (29:53 - 29:55)
Thank you very much for conducting this.







Interview 8 

[Speaker 2] (0:00 - 0:07)
Okay. Hello. Hi.

And thank you very much for accepting the invitation to do this interview with me.

[Speaker 1] (0:09 - 0:17)
It's a very pleasure of me and I hope I'll make some suggestions, good suggestions that will be taken care of, into consideration actually.

[Speaker 2] (0:18 - 1:17)
Thank you. Before we start I would like to do a short introduction. The study aims to reveal new employees' underlying feelings, expectations, fears when they are about to start a new position.

With this study I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers. The interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre-boarding and onboarding process. And with your permission, I would like to audio record this interview.

Is it okay for you if I do so? 

Yes, definitely it is okay. 

Thank you very much. Secondly, it is not anticipated that the interview will include feelings of distress. However, if this occurs you can stop the interview, take a break or skip any questions that you do not want to answer. Okay?

Okay, sure. 

Can you tell me a little bit about yourself and your background, please?

[Speaker 1] (1:18 - 2:00)
Yeah, definitely. Basically, I am Arvecha. I have a huge experience when it comes to a long time of working when it comes to consultancy and now for almost five to seven years in the startup scene, supporting startups with different needs and different workshops and investors potential and pitch training and so on. 

And just like very recently I joined to another big company which is a completely different industry in telecommunication in the Department of Innovation and Customer Care.

[Speaker 2] (2:02 - 2:12)
May I ask you what kind of characteristics define you as an employee at work? So, what kind of personality traits you offer at your workplace?

[Speaker 1] (2:13 - 2:19)
Basically, I'm very flexible. I am a fast learner and I am pro-challengers .

[Speaker 2] (2:20 - 2:28)
And you said that you have started as a telecommunication company. How long have you been at this new company now?

[Speaker 1] (2:29 - 2:31)
Now it's like the third week now .

[Speaker 2] (2:31 - 2:42)
Okay, perfect. Let's move a bit to the pre-boarding phase. How would you describe the pre-boarding experience leading up to your first day at the company?

[Speaker 1] (2:43 - 3:56)
Well, to be honest, I feel very lucky because I've been dealing with people that they were very, very considerable.  They were very helpful and very communicative. My case was a bit different.

I was supposed to start the job like mid of January this year, but because of some personal reasons and stuff, it was shifted till now in April, which was the first date, 9th of April. During these three months , three and a half, 
we were every second week or every third week of the month we were in communication, either by email or by phone, checking on each other. Mainly, they were the ones that they were checking on me if everything is fine, if we have everything. 

I felt taken care. I felt that they really want me. That's why they waited for so long. 

And it gave me a boost when it comes to self-esteem, to be honest. It's not that I had it before, to be honest.

[Speaker 2] (3:56 - 4:05)
Okay. Were there any specific communication channels or methods that you found particularly effective? Calling.

[Speaker 1] (4:06 - 4:52)
Calling was because I think the HR person, which I really have studied to her, sorry, to her also. It's amazing because with her, maybe energy and the voice, she was calming me down with everything, even the stress, most stressful time that I had it, when she was calling and saying like, look, we are here for you. We wait. 

Whatever it is the reason or whatever is the case, we are here for you. Don't stress yourself. And that was like something that it was wow. 

You know, you get this that they are really, it's not just a company. You are not just one plus number there, but you are a person, you are a human and they really do take into consideration this. 

[Speaker 2] (4:53 - 5:18)
And how did the frequency of communication during pre-boarding influence your expectations for your role in the company? 

What exactly do you mean?

 I mean, the frequency of communication during these three months.
How often did you get in contact with the company during this period?

[Speaker 1] (5:18 - 5:44)
Yeah. I mean, I mentioned every third week of the month or twice, sometimes twice a month. It was depending on the situation.

It was depending on if we were having questions for each other, but mainly it was like two times per month or it was reduced sometimes to once per month because of the trust and the information to be shared was not necessarily more often.

[Speaker 2] (5:45 - 5:56)
And can you describe any emotions or impressions you experienced as you learned more about the company's culture, values and mission during pre-boarding phase?

[Speaker 1] (5:57 - 7:12)
Yeah, definitely. I don't know if you can cut it out if you want to when it is about the interview, but I haven't listened or I haven't heard much, heard the right wording, heard much about really Austrian companies when they are very into waiting or if they are very Austrian people, then the process or the feeling is like you are an outsider. You need a bit more time to get into their emotions, to get into their circle and etc.

But to this, because I think there is a huge number of international people, they are very internationalized. And that's why I felt that I would be also very well welcomed the very first day that I go. That's why it happened also. 

So it gave me a positive vibe. It gave me a thing that, OK, this is like really something that I should keep and fight for and fight in a positive way, not fight, fight.

[Speaker 2] (7:13 - 7:23)
And were there any particular aspects of the company's culture that surprised you or stood out to you during this time?

[Speaker 1] (7:24 - 7:58)
Yes, this feeling welcomed, even though I was not part of the company. They called me like one month before. They called me to have a team meeting and have lunch with them just to get to know the team. 

So this was another motivation that, OK, things are really going well and they are really thinking in a human way, not just an extra number of doing some work there. This is what for me is very important .

[Speaker 2] (8:00 - 8:04)
And what kind of information you received from the company during this stage?

[Speaker 1] (8:06 - 8:47)
Besides the communication, nothing more. When it comes to internal information, nothing. Or with what I will be dealing with, the only information I got or something I got into was when I met the team almost one month ago.

And in this day, I was there for one day whole, completely one day. And they took me in all the meetings that they were present during that day. So I was in the loop of all what was happening with the old project that I am dealing. 

I mean, I started to deal right now.

[Speaker 2] (8:49 - 8:56)
Can you recall any instances where you felt that the company went above and beyond to build trust with you during pre-boarding?

[Speaker 1] (8:58 - 9:16)
The thing is, I think the whole waiting process and the whole being with me through the process is that I can call it and then say it, but some things particularly, I don't recall. I don't remember.

[Speaker 2] (9:18 - 9:30)
You said all this good stuff about the company, but were there any missed opportunities or areas where you felt the company could have done more to instill trust during this phase?

[Speaker 1] (9:30 - 10:07)
Yeah. I mean, of course, we as an employee, we are always eager for the only thing what I think it should be done more. But this is also in my part is when it comes to this is even not to the pre-boarding this.

I mean, before pre-boarding to the negotiation of benefits or salaries or, you know, this kind of stuff with you want to know more what the company can offer, but they most of the time, they don't show everything what they have, but you get it and you learn it as soon as you get inside. 

[Speaker 2] (10:08 - 10:17)
Okay. So in other words, you would like to speak up about these benefits beforehand, before you start.

[Speaker 1] (10:17 - 10:18)
Yes, exactly.

[Speaker 2] (10:19 - 10:36)
Okay. And okay, pre-boarding is over. Now let's move to the onboarding first day at work.

What were your initial feelings upon starting your first day at the company? And how did the onboarding process contribute to those emotions?

[Speaker 1] (10:38 - 11:34)
I was super excited, to be honest, but thrilled and happy. But in the same time, I was super scared,  because, as I mentioned, it was completely a new industry, which I never worked before, even though the position is like the same what I did in other companies, but still something completely new when it comes to departments and the things I will be dealing with. This was a bit scary.

But the way the company works or it is structured for the people to get inside as a first commerce is structured in that way that you get to know everything step by step . And they don't rush, they make it easy and they make it accessible. And to be honest, I felt very, to the team, I felt very, very welcome. 

[Speaker 2] (11:34 - 11:44)
And what was any specific aspect of the onboarding process that actually influenced your initial feelings? Can you recall something?

[Speaker 1] (11:46 - 12:57)
Yeah, I mean, I believe it is in every company that you have a buddy, I'm sure. I think it's supposed to be like that. You have a buddy that really takes care of you at least on the first two weeks.

And I was happy . And to be honest, I had two people, two buddies , 
One buddy that was like specifically meeting me or presenting me the people, key people whom I should know and with whom I will have to work . And another buddy was there to cherish me and give me all insight of the company on the best way possible , which is showing me the whole building, then giving me ideas, telling me everything on beneficial ways and getting to know me with the most crazy and funny people where I need some motivation.

I should go there and, you know, get a bit of a boost for good energy. So these kind of stuff don't happen always. And I think it's a good thing as a suggestion for the other companies to have it.

[Speaker 2] (12:58 - 13:06)
And were there any surprises or unexpected elements of the onboarding process that impacted your emotions during your first day?

[Speaker 1] (13:09 - 13:16)
Hmm, not that I think of. No, nothing actually.

[Speaker 2] (13:17 - 13:25)
Okay. And how did the onboarding experience align with or differ from your expectations based on the pre-boarding communications?

[Speaker 1] (13:28 - 14:43)
It was, I mean, it was a bit, of course, I expected to, because I'm used to stuff that you are just put it into the water and then cold water and you swim. This is how all other jobs they were. Here, it was a bit different because they gave me, so since only this week, I started to be really onto the work of the things that I have to. 

Last two weeks, I was getting to know people, learning about all the rules and code of conduct for the company, doing some exams, trainings and stuff. So it was two weeks, like fully letting me on my own and getting to know some people , but on the project project things or the things that I have to work, I started only this week. So basically, this was something that I was surprised for good or for good, I think, because they gave me the time that I need and they let it be that two weeks I get to know things and I get to get my know-how. 

And then now is the time that you can put yourself into the cold water and then learn to swim.

[Speaker 2] (14:46 - 15:00)
I believe you said that you've been at the company for three weeks now. However, can you describe any emotional highs or lows that you experienced? And how did they affect your trust in the organization?

[Speaker 1] (15:01 - 15:34)
Yes, I might sound very polishing or very in a way that I'm doing this because the interview should look good and I have to, like, no. The thing, what I said, I can't even document this because I've said it on the message to my family and friends. Believe me, after the first week, I said to my family and friends and to myself first that, oh, I feel that now I found my place. 

[Speaker 2] (15:35 - 15:36)
Okay, that is nice to hear.

[Speaker 1] (15:37 - 16:20)
Yeah, exactly. I mean, I'm happy for that too, to be honest, because what I felt is the friendship because people are working there for 10 plus years, 10, 20. They know each other.

There is a family in between of them. So they really work close with each other. And I felt very welcomed into this family. 

They are very friendly. And the good thing, which I was always looking for and which I'm always looking for is somewhere that I can grow and develop myself further. And in this company, you can do that.

You can grow and grow and then go beyond what you can expect.

[Speaker 2] (16:20 - 16:39)
I'm curious now about your company. Another question that I'm interested to know about. How did the company respond to any emotional challenges or concerns that you experienced during these past weeks?

[Speaker 1] (16:42 - 16:57)
Through the onboarding, I mean, now the work or like, I don't have anything that I had it on this discussion, to be honest. So I cannot say anything to this question.

[Speaker 2] (16:57 - 17:09)
Okay. Okay. And were there actually any missed opportunities or areas here where you also wish the company could have done more to support you?

[Speaker 1] (17:12 - 17:18)
No, no, I don't know. There is nothing I can say to that.

[Speaker 2] (17:18 - 17:32)
Okay. Maybe another question. Are there any suggestions or recommendations you would offer to improve the pre and onboarding experience for future candidates joining your company?

[Speaker 1] (17:34 - 17:35)
Once again, sorry.

[Speaker 2] (17:36 - 17:47)
Are there any suggestions or recommendations you would offer to improve the pre and onboarding experience for future candidates joining your company?

[Speaker 1] (17:51 - 19:17)
Something specific to the company? Not really. Onboarding, I cannot talk about anything about that because as you mentioned, it's everything super positive.

But this is my case. So I don't know how do they act upon the other cases or the other situations and how friendly or how open they are. To the boarding, I could say maybe, I don't know, because there is also sometimes this question that should we start immediately with the work after the first week or should we wait like three weeks to really get into the job?

So this is a bit questionable, which sometimes might be a right answer or might be not right, but not the right comment because it depends how much the person needs time to really observe all the new information. So I guess on their own, it's a good these two weeks, but sometimes maybe it lasts, I would say maybe one week is enough and the second week you can always already jump into the projects. I don't know, but this is only something that I can say into this, but something else is not that I think of.

[Speaker 2] (19:18 - 19:26)
And in your opinion, what are the most important factors for building trust with new employees during the pre and onboarding stage?

[Speaker 1] (19:26 - 20:30)
I think taking care, definitely .  
Communication is another one and letting to know the person, the employee, their rights and also their position in a way, how valuable they are in the company. This is what we really like and we feel amazing when we have it or when we hear it.  

And this is something that brings also trust that, okay, the company, as I mentioned it before, I felt it that I'm not just a number. I felt it like really they treat me like a human , which is normal and it's supposed to be like this to everyone. But we don't have it always, you know that.

So that's the case. So if you have this, that they really treat you, that you are really valuable and that you are really someone that they trust you, then the trust of you is also getting bigger and it is important, I would say.

[Speaker 2] (20:31 - 20:41)
Okay. And the last question, what advice would you give to other candidates who are about to go through the pre and onboarding process at your company?

[Speaker 1] (20:43 - 21:46)
Definitely be proactive by yourself also . 
Ask questions because they are always open to answer the questions and give you the right things and the right process and the right answers. This is very, very important. 

If you are proactive, it gives also them the idea and the opinion that you are really interested in that.  And this is very, very important. And it's the same with onboarding and boarding both because you need to get as much information as possible on the whole two processes.

Otherwise, just waiting there till somebody comes there and tells you something or shows you another tool or gets you another information, then it's not the ideal thing. So this is what I would suggest definitely and be open for any kind of discussion.

[Speaker 2] (21:48 - 22:07)
Well, Arbrez, thank you very much for your valuable, very valuable insights to this interview. You have given a lot of information that will be for me worth the effort for doing this interview with you. So thank you once again for the time.

[Speaker 1] (22:08 - 22:14)
Thank you for having me and I hope I will help you and good luck with everything.

[Speaker 2] (22:15 - 22:17)
Thank you very much. Bye-bye.














Interview 9 

[Speaker 1] (0:00 - 12:04)
Okay, hi Vanessa and thank you very much for accepting the invitation to do this interview. Thank you for having me here. So, a short description before we start.

The study aims to reveal new employees' underlying feelings, expectations and fears when they are about to start a new position. With this study, I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers. The interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre- and onboarding process and it will take up to 30 minutes to complete.

And of course, with your permission, I would like to record this interview. Is it okay for you? 
Yes, it is.

Thank you. Secondly, I would like to mention that it is not anticipated that the interview will include feelings of distress. However, if this occurs to you, you can stop the interview, take a break or skip any questions that you do not want to answer.

So, can you please tell me a little bit about yourself and your background? 

Yes, of course. So, my name is Vanessa, I am 21 years old  and I am studying software engineering here in the city. 

I am from Bulgaria , so I am a student abroad . And I recently started my first job, actually, three months ago.  And it is at a company that is related more to packaging or paper.

But I'm working in their IT department . 

And can you tell me a bit about the characteristics that define you as an employee at work? So, what kind of personality traits do you offer?

Personality traits? 

For example, let me give you examples of qualities that an employee can have. You can be organized, responsible, proactive, sociable, curious and so on.
So, these type of characteristics. What defines you? 

Yeah, I think what defines me is hard working. 
So, I really take a lot of care to do my assigned tasks  and I think I do them pretty well. So, I am pretty reliable . Probably, this is my most important trait.

How would you describe the pre-boarding experience leading up to your first day at the company? First of all, for how long have you been at the company that you're working for? For three months.

Three months. 
So, the pre-boarding is pretty fresh to you. So, how do you describe it, your experience with the pre-boarding?

Yeah, the pre-boarding for me was just two weeks , I guess. Yeah, after I said the yes. They sent me the contract and I had a period to review it and to ask questions. 

So, I called the HR employee and I asked her the questions I had. She did tell me the answers and everything was fine with me, with her answers. And yeah, that was actually everything that happened .

How did you feel about the organization's communication and engagement efforts during this period? 

I guess there wasn't a lot of engagement because I knew I just have to come at the 1st of February for me to take the laptop and stuff at nine o'clock and just sign the contract. There wasn't a lot happening.

Okay. Did you experience any particular feelings with this kind of communication during the onboarding? No, I don't think so.

I think I didn't mind because everything was clear with me after I asked my questions. 

And were there any specific communication channels or methods that you found particularly effective or maybe inadequate? 

I asked my questions per email and I expected to get an email back with the answer .
It was the HR copy and we discussed it on the phone. And probably per email, if it was written, I could have a little bit more time to reflect on what she said to me and remember what exactly she said to me.  

And can you share any impressions or feelings that you had during this period regarding the company's culture, values or expectations?
Did you talk at all about these kind of things during the pre-boarding?

 During the pre-boarding, no. But for me, it was a little bit of a different experience.
I knew the company even before the pre-boarding. So it was from university. So I had two days actually that I spent in the company and I saw how all the employees greet each other. 

This was before the pre-boarding or after? 

Yes, before. 

You said that you knew the company before.
Were there any aspects of the company's culture or values that surprised you or stood out to you? 
Actually, during also these two days that you went and saw the company in person? 

Yes, what stood out to me was the overall atmosphere.

So everybody was very cheerful and nice and funny. So it wasn't a very like stiff environment. I don't know how to say it, but it was open, kind and friendly .
And I felt like I would like to work in that company with such people.  

Okay. And can you recall any instances where you felt that the organization went above and beyond to build trust with you?

Above and beyond? No. 

That the company made you feel valuable?

Yeah. So after the two days, because we did some little workshops and questions in those two days, I didn't have an actual interview. And they just said to me that they wanted me to work for them.

And just asked me, when can you come to work with us? And it wasn't like a stressful interview where they ask you the questions. 

And what made them want to have you as an employee at their company?
What do you think in your perception always? 

I think because I was pretty engaged in those two days. So in the workshops, and I expressed my interest in the company.
So I asked questions, tried my best at the workshops to communicate with the other people to connect. And I think that was it. Okay.

In your opinion, were there any missed opportunities or areas where you felt that the company could have done more to instill trust during this stage? We are always talking about the pre-boarding.

 Yes.
They could have given me a more clear description of what my tasks will be, because it was pretty vague. I didn't know what exactly I will be doing. Just an overview. 

And the last question regarding pre-boarding. How did your level of trust in the company evolve or change as a result of your pre-boarding experience? So at the end of these two weeks, was there anything in particular that kind of changed the level of trust in the company or made you feel better or good or worse?

Something like that. Can you mention anything? 

No, sorry, I can't.
Nothing happened in those two weeks.

 



Okay. Let's move a bit on the onboarding now.
First day at work. What were your initial feelings upon starting the first day at the company and how did the onboarding process contribute to those emotions? Can you remember how did you feel?

I was pretty nervous right before I came to the company  and I saw my team so she greeted me actually and showed me the place. The nervousness was just before nine o'clock at 9.1. I was okay. 

And then what happened that you felt then okay?
What made you feel good? 

That my team lead came and the HR too. So they greeted me and they were all friendly like an old friend that you haven't seen for a while. 

Were there any surprises or unexpected elements of the onboarding process that impacted your emotions during your first day?

[Speaker 2] (12:07 - 12:09)
That impacted my emotions.

[Speaker 1] (12:12 - 21:02)
Yeah, I felt good that they reserved a place for me. And it was next to my mentor. I have a mentor as well in the onboarding phase. 

So yeah, he was there the whole day and he showed me around, told me the most important stuff. I met a lot of new people there. So he was actually meeting me with everybody else. 

I didn't have to go and say hi, I'm the new employee, nice to meet you. He was just kind of taking me by the hand and saying okay here is our new employee. 

And how was the communication with your colleagues?

Yeah, totally fine. They are all smiley. 

It was a small talk, I guess, but I didn't feel nervous, I think. 

And how did the onboarding experience align with or differ from your expectations based also on the pre-boarding and also on these two days that you already had at the company before the pre-boarding? How did it differ?
I mean, was it better than you expected? Was it worse? Was it as you expected it to be?
Always based on the two days that you went to the company and saw the place there. Can you make a comparison if you know what I mean? 

Yeah, I think it was better, yes.
I think those two days contributed to me feeling okay with the place because I already knew a little bit about the environment and I felt familiar, yes. It was a bit better. 

And were there any challenges or difficulties you encountered during onboarding that impacted your emotions or trust in the company?
When I say during the onboarding doesn't necessarily mean the first day at work, but also now that we're speaking after three months at the company. Did you face any challenges or difficulties that impacted your emotions? 

Yes, yes, I think so. Some days, for example, I didn't have anything to do and my mentor was having his own tasks, so I guess he couldn't give me something to do and I felt a bit bored and was like, okay, is this going to be my job? So, I have nothing to do, just mindlessly clicking around and not doing anything.  

And how did your mentor, for example, or your team leader respond to these concerns that you had or didn't you tell them at all?

I didn't communicate that, but that went away after a few days and I guess it could have been just a period where they forgot about me or there wasn't a lot of things to do. So, yeah. 

Okay, and how did you feel about the fact that they forgot about you?

It wasn't, it wasn't. So, it is actually, yeah, I was a little pissed off because I'm there to get our experience and not there to just sit around and not do anything. And yeah, I felt concerned about my goals, I guess. 

And can you share specific examples of how the company demonstrated its commitment to your success and well-being during this period? 

We have weekly meetings with my team lead, so she always asks me how is it going, do you have any suggestions, is everything okay? Do you want to work on a particular topic?
Yeah, I think this is very helpful. 

 And how do you feel about this commitment that they showed to you? 

How I feel about this commitment they showed me?

Yes, yes, this was the question. How do I feel about it? 

I feel nice, I guess.

Okay, in your opinion, Vanessa, were there any missed opportunities or areas where you wish that the company had provided more support or recognition during onboarding?

 No, I think everything was okay. 

Okay, and after our discussion today, how do you feel about your experience in general?

With the pre and onboarding. Sorry, I interrupted you. In general, I am pretty happy, I would say, with my pre and onboarding.

I don't go so well, but one just has to look at the whole picture.

 Are there any suggestions or recommendations that you would offer to improve the pre and onboarding experience for future candidates joining your company? What would you suggest to HR in this case?

Yeah, I would suggest clarity in what exactly the employee will be doing.  So, yeah, I feel like sometimes HRs want to hide some things from the employee. And this just leaves gaps, so to say, in an employee's mind, and that does not contribute to trust.  
I think that everything should be communicated clearly .  

In your opinion, what are the most important factors for building trust with new employees during the pre and onboarding phases? 

Probably involving the employee in company activities. 
So, there was also a photo shoot. I forgot, but that was just for all employees all together, but they invited me as well. There is a run happening in about two weeks, so they offered me to join their team.
And, yeah, just in the company events that the employee is included in them.

[Speaker 2] (21:03 - 21:05)
What else?

[Speaker 1] (21:05 - 22:29)
Mm-hmm. Looking back on your own pre and onboarding journey, is there anything you would have liked to see done differently or any additional support you would have found helpful? 

No, I think it is enough that I have a mentor, I have my weekly meetings with my team lead.
And, yeah, the HRs are always accessible as well. So, they tell me whenever I have questions, I can go and ask them, which I do. I have some questions.
And, yeah. 

And the final question. What advice would you give to other candidates who are about to go through the pre and onboarding process at a new company, generally, from your experience?

Yeah, from my experience, to don't be too stressed at the beginning, because as a new employee, we always try our hardest, I guess. But, it is enough what we do. 

[Speaker 2] (22:30 - 22:40)
And, yeah, I think that's it.

[Speaker 1] (22:42 - 22:59)
Okay. Vanessa, we came to the end of the interview. Thank you very much for your time and your valuable insights.

And, yes, I wish you good luck in your journey within the company and also with your studies.

[Speaker 2] (23:01 - 23:02)
Thank you so much.

[Speaker 1] (23:03 - 23:03)
Bye.






Interview 10 

[Speaker 2] (0:00 - 0:07)
Hello and thank you very much for accepting the invitation to do this interview with me today.

[Speaker 1] (0:08 - 0:10)
Hello and thank you for having me.

[Speaker 2] (0:11 - 0:51)
So, a short introduction before we start with the questions. The study aims to reveal new employees' underlying feelings, expectations and fears when they are about to start a new position. With this study, I would like to make a contribution to help companies create an effective strategy in creating trust among newcomers.

As already described to you, the interview will include questions regarding your experience during the pre- and onboarding process and it will take up to 30 minutes to complete. And with your permission, I would like to record this interview. Is it okay for you if I do so?

[Speaker 1] (0:51 - 0:52)
Yes, of course.

[Speaker 2] (0:53 - 1:07)
Thank you. Secondly, it is not anticipated that the interview will include feelings of distress. However, if this occurs, you can stop the interview, take a break or skip any questions that you do not want to answer.

[Speaker 1] (1:07 - 1:07)
Okay.

[Speaker 2] (1:08 - 1:13)
So, first, can you please tell me a little bit about yourself and your background?

[Speaker 1] (1:15 - 1:53)
Yes, my name is Arber. I'm 37 years old . I come from Austria. 

Last year, I decided to switch careers  and move from management to programming. I'm now a junior full-stack web developer located in Vienna. This year, in February, I found a job in this profession at a software company in Tyrol, but didn't go as I hoped it to be.

So, before the end of the probing month, I decided to leave the company. I'm now looking for a new job that will help me to put in practice my new skill set.

[Speaker 2] (1:54 - 2:03)
And may I ask you what kind of characteristics define you as an employee at work? So, what kind of personality traits you offer at your workplace?

[Speaker 1] (2:04 - 2:48)
I must say I'm a very quiet and responsible person. I try to do my work with a lot of dedication. I want to always make sure that everything I do is perfectly done.

Other than that, people say that I'm very friendly and cooperative. My curious nature helps me learn new things very quickly. When I'm faced with something unfamiliar, I try to learn things logically and not by heart. 

I like challenges and I like to go through them until the end. In other words, I'm a person who doesn't give up easily.

[Speaker 2] (2:50 - 3:00)
Let's move a bit to the pre-boarding experience of yours. How would you describe this stage leading up to your first day at the company?

[Speaker 1] (3:01 - 5:01)
Yes, the pre-boarding phase was very short in my case. I got the confirmation from the company on Friday to start the upcoming week on Tuesday. So, it was just a couple of days in between. 

This was because the company was in urge to find another team member for the camping department. Another reason they wanted me to start as soon as possible was regarding a training which would begin on Wednesday of that week when I started working. So, they wanted me to take part in that training immediately.

The pre-boarding experience, as I said, was short. However, the HR manager with whom I was in contact since the day of my interview was very friendly. She let me know immediately the other steps of the employment procedure including the payment contract. 

What I valued a lot from the company was their readiness to book a hotel room for my stay. Since I lived in Vienna and the company was located in Tyrol, we decided that I would work remotely after the probing month.  However, what I did not find very pleasant was the fact that I had to pay the train tickets to Tyrol and back by myself.

They would then reimburse the money on my bank account. In this case, I thought that the company was not that organized. In my opinion, they could do the same for the train tickets as they did with the hotel rooms.

Other than that, the HR was very communicative, answering all my questions pretty fast. Most of the communication was through mails and phone calls. 

[Speaker 2] (5:03 - 5:12)
And how did you feel about the organization's communication and engagement efforts during the period of pre-boarding?

[Speaker 1] (5:12 - 6:15)
To be honest, I felt very appreciated and valued because they put a lot of effort to make me feel good and to answer all my questions.  We decided that I would be present at the workplace the first couple of months and not work online. This was for the sake of getting to know the job and other colleagues better and understand faster which my tasks would be.

For this reason, the company would offer me an apartment to stay and a car to use to go to work. These benefits made me feel valued and already part of the company, even though I had not yet started. They made me believe they wanted me as a long-time employee.  

The HR manager was very kind to explain me all these benefits. Also, she was very fast to reply whenever I wrote her a message and asked questions. 

[Speaker 2] (6:16 - 6:21)
Can you provide examples of the types of communication you received during this period?

[Speaker 1] (6:21 - 6:34)
Yes, as I said, most of the communication was done through email and that was fine for me as long as I got all the information I needed to know.

[Speaker 2] (6:35 - 6:44)
And how did the frequency and quality of communication during pre-boarding influence your expectations for your role and the company in general?

[Speaker 1] (6:46 - 7:55)
I created the idea that the company was very kind to their employees, very professional and they valued employees' requests and opinions. This fact made me create trust on the company and decide to choose them as my future employer. I also had another opportunity with another company, but I decided to go with them due to reasons I already mentioned. 

Since I am new at this profession, security and dedication from the company are very important to me, as the insecurities at this point are very high. I knew I had to choose the starting company very carefully because I want to create a long experience at the place I will start working. I am the kind of employee who wants to stay long at the workplace.

So, I must admit, the company during the pre-boarding phase did a very good job to convince me to choose them. 

[Speaker 2] (7:55 - 8:05)
Can you share any impressions or feelings you had during the pre-boarding period regarding the company's culture, values or expectations?

[Speaker 1] (8:05 - 8:30)
I felt enthusiastic and very happy to start due to their dedication to me as an employee. As I understood, at that point they were a company with a flat hierarchy where the voice of the employees was heard and valued. The general feedback up to that point was very positive.  

[Speaker 2] (8:31 - 8:38)
Were there any aspects of the organization's culture or values that surprised you or stood out to you during this time?

[Speaker 1] (8:39 - 9:18)
For me, it was very strange how quickly everything happened and I started working there after a couple of days. In my opinion, this was a very rushed decision because it didn't give me much time to prepare the moving to Tyrol and for other organizational issues.  This hadn't happened to me never before in 18 years of working experience.

However, I think this showed me that the company was very flexible and adaptive to immediate changes and I liked that.

[Speaker 2] (9:20 - 9:28)
How did your understanding of the company's culture and values during pre-boarding impact your anticipation for joining the company?

[Speaker 1] (9:28 - 9:52)
I felt happy to start not only because I was very enthusiastic for starting my new career but also because I felt I had made the right decision for choosing this company. I felt the company was like I wanted it to be, very helpful, employee-driven and with a lot of opportunities I could take advantage of. 

[Speaker 2] (9:54 - 10:08)
You mentioned all these positive aspects that happened to you during the pre-boarding. Were there any missed opportunities or areas where you felt that the company could have done more to instill trust during this phase?

[Speaker 1] (10:10 - 10:31)
It doesn't come anything special in my mind right now. As I explained, they already went far more ahead than I thought they would to make me feel good and welcomed at the company. Communication was good and fast, benefits were also good, everything seemed to be right and I was happy. 

[Speaker 2] (10:32 - 10:39)
How did your level of trust in the organization evolve or change as a result of your pre-boarding experience?

[Speaker 1] (10:40 - 10:53)
As a result of their greater efforts, I created a lot of trust in the company during this phase. I was really looking forward to starting the job there. 

[Speaker 2] (10:53 - 11:15)
So, in general, your pre-boarding experience was very positive and I'm very much looking forward now to gain some insights on your own boarding. What were your initial feelings upon starting your first day at the company and how did the onboarding process contribute to these emotions?

[Speaker 1] (11:17 - 12:35)
The day before the first day at work was a bit stressful for me. I had a mix of feelings such as enthusiasm, fear, insecurity and tiredness due to the moving from Vienna to Tyrol.  The first day at work was as I expected it to be.

I got a welcome from the HR manager. She introduced me to all the departments and colleagues one by one. I was handed in my work equipment such as laptop, mouse, headset and all the username and passwords for my login accounts. 

I felt very welcomed from the team leader too and from all my future colleagues as well.  And the insecurities and fears of the day before were faded away. I was a bit scared because this new career was totally new for me and I didn't know how the work in a real company is and how would I manage to succeed. 

[Speaker 2] (12:38 - 12:45)
Can you describe any specific aspects of the onboarding process that influenced your initial feelings upon starting?

[Speaker 1] (12:46 - 13:47)
Well, taking a lot of information at once since the first day was very overwhelming. This made me feel even more insecure if I could do this job. They put me straight to the tasks without explaining first the processes, the company's products and services, the company's clients and so on. 

I found myself the first day jumping in cold water, dealing and listening to other colleagues' meetings without understanding first what were they doing. 
 I was sitting there listening for 4 hours, taking notes, but no one had the time to explain if I had the question because they were in phone calls speaking with the customers.  
I would have to wait with my questions until someone was free to answer because they were busy most of the time on phone calls .

[Speaker 2] (13:49 - 13:56)
Were there any surprises or unexpected elements that impacted your emotions during your first day?

[Speaker 1] (13:58 - 14:25)
Other than what I mentioned previously, no. As I said, what I found very unexpected was the fast moving procedures and the company's rush to make me ready to start working independently as soon as possible.  I didn't think they would be in the onboarding phase as fast with the procedures in the pre-boarding.

I was feeling insecure but I decided to give myself time. 

[Speaker 2] (14:27 - 14:35)
How did the onboarding experience align with or differ from your expectations based on the pre-boarding communications?

[Speaker 1] (14:36 - 15:14)
Positive and negative feelings were mixing with each other. Before the first day I felt insecure but happy to start and the beginning of the first day I felt welcomed and respected. This made the feeling of insecurity to fade a bit. 

During the day I felt overwhelmed with all the information I received. I expected a more easy-paced environment the first day. This took me by surprise. 

[Speaker 2] (15:15 - 15:23)
Can you provide examples of moments that made you feel particularly valued or supported during onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (15:25 - 15:42)
To be honest, I didn't feel something in particular. At least I don't remember anything special. The environment was very friendly and familiar.

The colleagues made me feel good. They were all so friendly.  But that's it.

[Speaker 2] (15:43 - 15:52)
Were there any challenges or difficulties you encountered during onboarding that impacted your emotions or the trust in the company?

[Speaker 1] (15:53 - 18:04)
Yes, it was one situation that made me feel bad and question myself if the company was the right one for me. I'm gonna be honest with this point and explain the situation. One day the team leader came and asked me how was it going.
And then he asked me something in specific. If I knew how to do it or not. From his questions I understood that he wanted to test me.
And I answered to him question with yes, I know this. After that he asked me about something else. And I said I don't remember this.
The team leader didn't like my answer and started judging me and telling why don't you remember that. This is very basic, you should know this and so on. Actually this made me feel very bad and not supported at all. 

So this was let's say my second week, the end of the second week. I was totally sincere with him, telling him that I will take care of this issue. But the way the conversation went and the way he responded to my sincerity was very harsh.

After this discussion I made him a question and asked. Okay, so what are your expectations for my work at the company? So that I could work and focus according to the priorities.

As you might understand one of the problems here was the fact that priorities were not set clear at the beginning. And the proper training was missing.  Anyway I didn't get any answer from him for my question.

Then I remember the phone call I had with them when they said yes, you will start next week.

[Speaker 2] (18:05 - 18:14)
And how did the organization respond to any emotional challenges or concerns you experienced during onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (18:14 - 18:26)
This was good I must say. Every time I had something or a problem they were there with a solution. The problems were mainly technical or organized. 

[Speaker 2] (18:28 - 18:38)
Can you share specific examples of how the organization or the company demonstrated its commitment to your success and well-being during onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (18:38 - 18:57)
The HR manager came every day to my desk asking if everything is going okay and if I needed something. The team leader as well. They tried to show me that they care and I found that particularly nice of them. 

[Speaker 2] (18:59 - 19:11)
And according to your opinion, were there any missed opportunities or areas where you wished that the company had provided more support or recognition during onboarding?

[Speaker 1] (19:12 - 21:12)
Yes, definitely. During onboarding I would very much like to have a buddy to explain me the tasks in detail to go through the processes with me. Every day I had another colleague taking care of me. 

However, they would not stay by my side long enough for me to understand faster the processes. They had to do their job as well and they were not focused on me. In addition, if I had questions, I would very often have to wait until they were free to have an answer. 

And this would mean also one hour or two. Not only that, I didn't manage to go through the processes one by one. I would start learning something one day, the other one they would let me to do another task and in the afternoon I would come back to the processes of the first day.

So, yes, the training part could definitely be better organized.  
Secondly, the documentation of the processes was not clear at all. I didn't have a buddy, at least I should have had something to read and learn from it. 

The answer was, you are lucky, you at least have one documentation. When I started this company, there was no documentation. Every time I heard these explanations, I created security in myself that the company was not the right one.

Furthermore, the feedback part is very important. I didn't receive that either. I wanted to know how I was going. 

I was totally insecure about how things were going and I didn't receive it. 

[Speaker 2] (21:15 - 21:24)
And now, how do you feel about your experience with pre and onboarding at the company after our discussion today?

[Speaker 1] (21:25 - 21:40)
Unfortunately, I have to admit that I did the right choice to leave the company  after the third week. I had this feeling when I was there with them and I have this feeling also now that I'm not part of the company anymore.

[Speaker 2] (21:41 - 21:52)
Are there any suggestions or recommendations you would offer to improve the pre and onboarding experience for future candidates joining this company?

[Speaker 1] (21:53 - 22:06)
Yes, as I said, the training part for new employees could be better.  
The feedback is important  and 
the documentation of the processes as an instruction book would also be very helpful. 

[Speaker 2] (22:08 - 22:16)
In your opinion, what are the most important factors for building trust with new employees during the pre and onboarding phases?

[Speaker 1] (22:17 - 22:58)
First, being honest with the employee and explaining everything clearly since the very beginning so that the employee knows what to expect.  
Second, not trying to sell the company as the best company. And then step by step you realize that they are not what they looked like. 

And third, the company must be very professional with hiring. This would show employees that the company is serious and as a consequence also a company someone can trust. 

[Speaker 2] (22:59 - 23:14)
And the last question. What advice would you give to other candidates who are about to go through the pre and onboarding processes at a new company based on your experience and perspectives?

[Speaker 1] (23:16 - 24:01)
So, to check the company carefully before applying . You will be lucky if you know someone who works there and could help you with information about the company's culture and values. This will help you to understand more, to be very careful with the details during pre and onboarding and ask a lot of questions and trust your instincts.

Only in the details, you can understand if the company is the one for you or not. If it is not okay since the beginning, then it won't be in the future.  And even if it happens that the company becomes better in the future, it will take for sure a lot of time.

[Speaker 2] (24:04 - 24:13)
Arber, thank you very much for your time today to do this interview. We came to the end of it. So, thank you once again for your valuable insights.

[Speaker 1] (24:14 - 24:16)
It was a pleasure. Thank you too.


