And I was also in close touch with the HR, the CTO and the CEO. So after I was accepted, I received an email from each department. So yeah, I would say the HR department and the CTO and CEO.
They were quite responsive, really fast, I would say. And there were instructions, obviously. I was sent a contract, an agreement, everything was signed.
So in this instance, I would say that it was really organized. So it was a positive experience to me. I also didn't have to wait for a long time for each email.
, the previous company that I was working for, and they weren't really so responsive. And to me, that means that they either weren't so interested in me, or maybe they were waiting for another candidate, even though they accepted me, or they weren't as professional as I thought them to be.
in the beginning, I wasn't really clear, but I didn't want to ask any questions to them regarding this, because I think that getting things done in the technical aspect is more important.
when I told the current company that I also had received an offer from another company, they really seemed to be pushing more. So I also had an in-person interview where I saw that, okay, the CEO was really trying to convince me and join the company.
I was also told that the company has a lot of benefits and then I was listed all of them.
they contacted me directly with my offer. They sent me the contract. I had to sign it and send it back. No need for hard copies or things like that, just by email or scanning, things like that. They had a list of documents I had to provide and that took a couple of weeks to take care because depending on the laws and how the documentation can be provided by school or by the national institutions and things like that.
then they sent me some more information regarding housing because we also have a relocation package that helps a lot money-wise 
information about E-card and I think for metal centre as well
it was some kind of good information and a guide of what is expected of you when you come here.
was very responsive and with whatever questions that I had, she was very quick to respond.
I felt like secure in a way. So, I was safe to have like to be more, how can I say it, not safe, but just like secure and that I'll find everything and I'll like have everything in place in a way.
I would have liked to be a little bit earlier because it was like, where do I go, what do I do, who I contact and things like that.
the communication I had with HR and later then with my manager was making me feel easier.
there's also more careful communication with each other.
So, it's not like being diplomatic, but it's in the way that we don't hurt each other's feelings when we have something to criticize or we have something that is going wrong.
In the HR, it was like a normal HR interviews. I mostly did the interviews with the managers. HR was very little involvement from HR, like very few questions from them.
during the questions and the interview part, they were laughing or having some reaction to what I was saying. So, that's a good feeling and you can read it on their faces sometimes when it's good.
They were very transparent with me 
So, they had clear information, they had clear procedures, they had people to take care of you, so it was what you would expect from an international company. Nothing out of the ordinary, but also not bad.
Well, the only information that I had from the pre-boarding was that I would have a buddy, like a person that would take care of my onboarding. So I didn't know what to expect in a way.
, in the meantime, I was, I would say, daily in contact with my current director in this case
And I always was getting updates regarding my status in this case for the visa, for the onboarding in this case, which is like creating the needed accounts and if I needed some support. 
What I didn't get that others, as I heard, are getting is the relocation package,
they were very professional, but in the meantime, very friendly, because everything was, like I didn't have to do any bureaucracy or anything like that. 
But mainly emails and also phone calls. We were doing a lot of phone calls, directly cell phone calls.
Just getting in constant touch, constantly in communicating with me, caring about the needs in this case, and if I have any further requirements
, just the relocation thing, if it's included, would be really good. 
getting you into the office before onboarding.
I would say it was increasing trust based on their alertness and professionalism. So I would say it was increasing.
getting to know the team before joining in, maybe through some calls, video calls, and also why not this training of the products 
Definitely open approach, open communication between both sides in this case, keeping it professional, however, in the meantime, like being friendly and open because a lot of emotions are mixed in this process for both sides
I didn't face any problems in terms of submitting all the necessary documents that was requested. But also, it was a lot of guidance at the beginning.
, I was contacted from my team leader regarding the last details. So, there was a lot of information on that point.
I received an email with all the information after I got the offer.
. I liked the fact that everything was written on a written form. So, everything was official and there were no mistakes and no misunderstanding from any side.
Well, actually, it gave me the feeling that it was a stable company. It was well organized. So, the HR department felt that they were doing the job quite well.
I felt quite good. It was a really friendly approach from the HR. And yeah, so far my experience was really good.
from other sides that were trying to clarify this and just say, okay, yeah, we need this and this. Are you okay? Have you completely understood what is your role?
"it was the feeling that the company was really international. Also, the people that were interviewing me were from different cultural backgrounds. But also, I could see also that the company and the other employees are not from Austria, so there's a lot of intercultural environment.

Something that was really, really good to see and that was making me feel easier to the whole process and more comfortable."
"each person that communicated with me actually was there for a particular reason and he was there to communicate his or her point of view. So, what was necessary for him to get as information.
So, I believe that actually helped me to understand that they know for what they are employing"
Everything was a good communication. Everything was in a friendly environment. 
First of all, to be clear with them, what is expected from them, why it is expected from them. So when this is good communicating and clear communicated to get the feedback in terms of are you okay with this, are you happy with this.
they have called me, they emailed me and everything was also in verbal and also in writing. So, they were very effective from this part.
And I really felt like it was a very serious company. And for me, I felt good and very, let's say, I felt like I could trust the people and the people that were talking to me and calling me. In this case, it was HR department, different colleagues now.
And they were very helpful. In the pre-onboarding, they would call me because I had a need to apply for a new red-white-red card, a new visa. And so, they were very willing to help me with that.
it was very helpful and always being there if I had any questions or anything. Also, of course, they helped me with some presentations and they sent me some more materials and information regarding the company
"There were some related to the company from the way that how they do business. And of course, also the ecological part that they are very complying with the environmental needs and everything.

So, that part sparked my attention. And it was something that I really appreciated the companies. And I look at when they care about the environment."
And always, if you need anything, just call us. And we will help you with any document that you need. So, that really was like, let's say, a good start for me.
They showed me several materials that I would need for my job. And how the culture was in the environment, the culture in the team was.
Well, the other company was not so, I would say, not so precise. And they were not very organized. That made me feel a little bit like stressed and not showing trust to the company.
"And not being organized, being late with the replies, with the phone calls. That made me feel a little bit like I was very, let's say, not so.

I have my doubts for the company, for the previous one. Which I didn't have for the company I'm currently working. Because, as I said, they did every step right."
I'm thinking now that in my previous job, usually some people did not care how I felt.
I came to the office pretty much to meet my new team leader. 
he only showed me around, like where is what and what is what.
If I have like the access for anything or everything that I need for the work, like all the softwares or programs that I need for the work.
it wasn't that much, but it was quite clear. I mean, it was only through email.
basically during this one week gap, like time gap, basically we didn't do much. I only got like two emails, no phone calls, only emails. Okay.
there's like my first impression when they were like invited me directly to the company, like in person to meet my team leader. So my first impression was like, yeah, OK, then they really want me
. So I got this impression that they appreciate me and they want me to be there, to be part of their team. That's actually my impression.
. I was in communication with the company and people from human resources all the time. They would explain to me how things were and give me the necessary information of my position and also about the company.
before actually starting the on-boarding phase, they had set up an on-boarding buddy for me and he sent me an email with all the explanations about the job, about the project, about what I needed to enhance the skills before actually joining this project 
"I think it was very professional. We generally were in contact with emails during this stage, nothing else.

No teams or any other communication tool, but I think it's very professional and everything is documented, so they would just communicate with my personal email until I would get the email from the company."
Comparing to previous experiences, it was a higher frequency of communication
I had to wait for a while, so that made me a bit anxious, but when I received the email from my onboarding buddy and I started being in contact with him, the communication was, let's say, at least once per week and that was a pretty good experience comparing to experiences and frequency of communication with the company that I worked before.
I think at that time I did not have much any idea how things worked and I was a bit anxious how things worked there and what is expected of me
I would say they were pretty supportive for me and they would always respond any questions that I have and since I was also non-EU national
, I was in frequent communication via email with the HR person, with the person that actually did the interviews with me and followed up on everything
he invited me to go to the office, to the premises and I could actually see and touch a little bit where the place was and what it looked like, to meet some people there and let them know that I would be the new employee
just communicate a bit more 
it's important that in the end they would just reply to my emails to make me feel sure that things are going okay and we're going on the right direction together 
TargetText
I still stay in touch with the HR and they were trying to, they said, take your time and everything is going to be well, don't worry about it. It's a new thing. So we all know how it feels like.
the documentations of the company are very well explained.
. They have taken quite some time to give a focus on the onboarding aspect of an employee.
you don't have to worry at all about it because we're all in your shoes. So they know how it feels like to be onboarded on a company and everyone faced the same, let's say the same errors that I faced.
And for everything that I would face difficulties, they would always be supportive and there to reply and give me some feedback. 
. And I feel like I'm safe hands. And yeah, that's what I can say.
we always take notes of something that is not correct or something that needs to be improved.
For the preboarding, I would say response time definitely plays a huge role in this.
I would really appreciate the fact if the company at least tried to reply to the emails faster within possibly a couple of days
from the company's perspective, I would say that they seem quite more professional if they respond quicker and faster. 
people try to be careful when they speak, so they don't offend anyone or don't make anyone feel, I don't know, mistreated or things like that.
"It's just the way that they introduced me to everyone with full confidence and that we have a new scrum master and she will be with you and help you. And that's what was important for me as well.

So they had trust in me and that was very good."
"Well, they asked me, how are you doing? How are things at home? Because I was also relocating and trying to fix everything and documentation.
So, they were like, how are you doing? Have you been anywhere? Do you need help with something?"
, they were trying to take feedback from my side as well, not just me going to them when I needed help.
So, they tried to make me understand how the teams work, how are they collaborating with each other, what systems do we have. I mean, not in details because it's not important for my work, but at least so I understand how they work.
, information is very important. So, as to be as clear as they can with documentation, with the steps that you need to take, where are you going, how are you doing this and all these things, information and transparency, of course. Well, they have to trust you as well and to show the trust that they have in you.
they always should keep their word. If they promise you something, they should make that expectation because otherwise, then you will be distrustful to them.
Only sometimes, for example, the communication through email, maybe it continues to be done as well in German, then it made me a bit left out in this case.
the supervisor presented me in front of like maybe 30 or 40 employees, employees in this case, developers. So I kind of felt honored to present myself in front of them,
And I had like good, good feedback about my progression towards getting to know better their products.
I was doing the trainings for both products simultaneously. So that was a bit overwhelmed, which I later on required, for example, to get the first training, finish that and start with the second training. 
that first month test phase can be really, really stressful in this case because if you just don't go through it, you are basically without a job.
Definitely open approach, open communication between both sides in this case, keeping it professional, however, in the meantime, like being friendly and open because a lot of emotions are mixed in this process for both sides
, there was no official training in terms of what was handed over to me through seminars or an educational overview of what the company does or what kind of products the company has.
everything was really fast and there was no time to adopt all this information, to process all this information.
, it would be nice to see a little bit of the background of the company, what all products they do offer, in which areas they're covering, what kind of departments that do exist. So, it was a little bit more general to this point of view.
Since there was a direct communication, we already had a good communication and a pre-boarding phase. So, yeah, everything ran quite smoothly.
There were actually quite everyone was there when I needed it. When I was meeting someone, I was popping on the corridors or to someone else I was meeting. They were open to me, they were saying if I need something
That was also from my team leader, it was quite good when the information was directly and really approachable. So that went quite well, I have to say.
the training should be a bit more organized or more structured, let's say, in a way that we should know what to expect and what will be taken over from me
I felt in some points that I was losing the full picture because I needed to do things on my own in order to understand this and I had to go back and ask again for the same thing. So either I didn't have the full picture or let's say it was not a good communication, the knowledge was not transferred correctly.
First of all, to be clear with them, what is expected from them, why it is expected from them. So when this is good communicating and clear communicated to get the feedback in terms of are you okay with this, are you happy with this.
So, it was a mix of feelings of fear and also excitement because I was going to learn new things. And I am currently learning a lot of new things and that's what I actually like.
Well, the company, as I said, has this very nice strategy and the goals for the trainings. So, they have different platforms for trainings and depending on the department they have, it's specific. And they were very clear about this in the beginning.
Well, actually, I talked to HR. They were very… They cared what I was going to say.
if you have something to say, they really listen and try to solve it for you if they can, of course, because there are some things you cannot do anything about it. But for what they have in their hands to do, they actually did it for me and listened.
"I was learning too fast. So, I really felt appreciated because it was like… It's only your third day and you're doing stuff.

So, that really got me… I felt appreciated and I felt good. It got me motivated to even go on with other tasks."
They were really good in explaining the organizational structure and everything. But in my department, I would have liked to get into more detail on what one is doing so that the other knows as well. It's like communication between the team.
I was being part of the team, like for real, getting things done and being involved. That's very important from the first days of my work. In general, it was good.
When you say certain things and you present certain things in the pre-boarding period, and the onboarding period matching those two, what you say and what you really do, it's very important for me to build trust on anyone, not just the company. If they say something different in my pre-onboarding and it turns out to be different, usually that would lose my trust.
, it was quite demanding from the side of my team leader, because it was like too much information at once,
everything came at once and it was quite demanding in a way that, in a sense that quite stressful, in my opinion.
The thing that probably affected the trust quite badly for me, it was the amount of workload, actually.
Then my trust was a bit shaky, actually, a little bit. Because all of these many things, I understand why I had to stay longer. Because as I say, that's actually the result of so much information at once.
to recalculate the workload that an employee has.
sometimes it's quite too much and someone can get very overwhelmed. So probably a better calculation for the workload, actually
TargetText
I would say that I was very confident since the first day I wasn't anxious, unlike my first, uh, experiences with other companies.
I was able to be in touch with the team, most specifically with the CEO and the CTO. 
I was introduced to the team, even though the company is a little bit small, the office and most of the employees are remote.
setting everything up in terms of hardware, software, uh, my work environment and everything. 
 the first experience was really good and positive, I would say, and quite professional. 
when I was introduced with all of this new stuff, I was overwhelmed and I felt a bit anxious and stressed, but then I was thinking, okay, this is what happens in every company and every onboarding. So everything requires some time.
I felt a lot of stress. Uh, not because of, in terms of expertise, but as I said, it's because it was something new and your company and your environment. So that plays a role.
Of course, you are scared because it's a different country, it's a different language and you are not sure what you'll find here. 
it was this feeling of having all foreigners around me, not just Austrians, there are from all over the world. And I have never had this kind of experience before.
Of course, I was scared. I was like, how is my colleague going to look like, going to feel like? How are they going to like receive me?
There were mixed emotions in this case. Maybe the frightening, like being afraid of moving into totally new place or country was sometimes overwhelming my warm feelings towards the new place, towards the new employer. It was like fluctuating.
. Initially, I anticipated a bit colder culture here from the other colleagues and the teams. 
, I was surprisingly, in a positive manner, surprised actually because they really welcomed me in a good way in this case.
. Just an ease onboarding started with some onboarding trainings.
There were quite a lot of people, a lot of trainees that were at the same moment when I joined. So, it was a strange environment, a strange feeling at the beginning because everyone was new and no one knew what and where he or she should go.
I would say it was a bit more difficult because when you are on the first day, you are learning, you are starting from scratch. 
. Because it's very stressful when you're international in a new country.
, that part is very stressful when you have to apply for a new visa and residence permit. That part is really nice by their side.
Of course, when you start a new job, of course, you're feeling a little bit anxious
They had organized everything. They put the things that I needed, like my laptop, the other parts, the screens and everything, the keyboard. They had prepared everything, my table.
They would give me a short introduction, again, about the company and hierarchy, organigram and stuff like that, more detailed. And then I would meet with IT. They would give me all my passwords, everything that I needed for my work.
Meeting the team was really nice because, as I said, I was introduced in my interviews, but I did not know them personally, so I was kind of networking between the departments a little bit. And that day, it went like that. Half of the day was trying to get to know everyone and trying to network with the colleagues.
And after that, I was in a very short introduction of my tasks and how everything was structured in the department I'm currently working in. And so, this is how the first day went by.
, it was a bit annoying, frankly speaking, because then I had to start over again, I had to learn new things from the beginning again and stuff, so my impression, it wasn't that good, but it wasn't that bad either, so it was quite middle, I'd say.